# Cutting to 100 from HUNDREDS of Choices
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/0Y495n9eUjU
date: 2026-08-16 | views: 13,747 | likes: 566 | comments: 636 | length: 11:29 | words: 2,548 | wpm: 222.0
tags: MTG, Magic the Gathering, Commander, EDH, UUGGUU, uugguu, ooze, deckbox, Uugguu the Omniplasm, Budget, Mystery Commander

[0:00] Hello, this is Jim with next level And no, this channel hasn't been taken over by Ugu. I'm perfectly safe and stable. I have survived being mind controlled by Anesthetist Emrakul. Yeah, and I've got videos about Muxus gang and no, I mean Homer the Hermit Homer the Hermit coming up. So look forward to those. But before that, today's video is to wrap up the Ugu trilogy. But it's not about Ugu, it's about picking cards for your deck, especially ones with seemingly thousands of options like for example, you know who you go. So we'll talk about the individual card choices why we are omitting some of the flashiest, most powerful options in favor of boring role players that no one even plays anymore.

[0:42] Also, I just passed 5,000 subscribers. So we're doing a sweet giveaway with my sponsor Kakapopo. If you want to win this awesome deck Bento or the Monsters Den deck boxes, stick around. Now, if you're just interested in the giveaway, you can also jump to minute 10 to see what's in line. But if you stick around, I'll go over with you how I sifted through hundreds of excellent card suggestions to find the perfect ones for my deck. And it can be difficult with how open-ended Ugu is. Almost all of them are excellent suggestions that can have some sweet effects on the deck. But I have to say no to most of them because well, you know, my commander is Ugu and not Wits. And actually, I've been brewing with the Muxus gang and I'm I'm facing a very similar problem. It's an embarrassment of riches that forces you to really think about what the core of your deck is.

[1:25] I think it's helpful to visualize your deck like a tree where you have the trunk which supports everything. Like that would be your commander vegetables like ramp, card draw and the cards that directly synergize with your commander to generate an advantage that other decks don't have. This is our top priority and once we have that, we move upwards to what many consider to be the fun part of the deck. The synergies, the clever little interactions, the win more cards even. But if you've seen my deck techs, you know that I like my trees not looking like this, but more like this. I want my core to be as solid and as consistent as possible before reaching outwards to the front part. Let's take the example of my Ares God of War deck. In this deck, I've got the core strategy of constantly dropping hasty little creatures and getting them back into my hand with the help of a cycle.

[2:08] To secure this core strategy, I dedicated 28 cards. And only then I begin reaching upwards. Hopefully this FIFA style coloring makes sense. Green means cards that are directly connected to the core. And these are just one level away, so we can usually pull them off pretty consistently. But then if we reach up another level, we have cards that we can pull off less reliably, but are smashier and oftentimes more fun. If you look at cool but rude, the second level is one of the main reasons we're playing it, but it only works best if we can reliably fire off these draw effects from the level below. Personally, again, I'm very careful with playing these cards, especially if your deck and strategy isn't really short on playables. My Gitrog deck, for example, has 48 card slots dedicated to elves and pump. That's the core strategy.

[2:49] And my Evelyn deck is the most extreme example of this with 59 cards enabling the blinking and cloning of Evelyn. Now I know many will consider this to be boring, and this is absolutely a preference. I choose to do this because I want my games to be as consistent as possible. I want my decks to consistently do something every game rather than having swingy experiences. Like sometimes I will have a million damage with while sitting at 200 life, and then have games where I do nothing. And with that in mind, I think I can begin justifying what I choose to play, and perhaps more importantly what I choose not to play in Ugu. So, the core of the deck is clones and reanimation spells. The clones will help make exponential Ugus. Meanwhile, the reanimation and undying spells serve as cheaper but more situational clone effects.

[3:30] And at the same time, they serve as protection for Ugu, which this entire deck leans on. Fairly simple and straightforward, and I have over 35 cards to ensure that my core game plan happens. And again, as mentioned earlier, this game plan it gives us a ton of different directions to go when it comes to synergy. And all of them are just one step away from the core, whether it's devotion, tribal, tokens, or something fringe like convoke. But as you may already know, my favorite synergy here is the Arcane Adaptation effects because miraculously, thanks to the interaction with clones, these also synergize directly with the core game plan with no need for intermediaries. Now, this is usually not the case for these effects. For example, my friend Alex has an Altered deck. And that uses Conspiracy to turn everything into Assassin.

[4:11] When it works, it's absolutely glorious, but when he's denied the Conspiracy effects, the deck falls flat. So, history is much more top-heavy than mine. And that's because Altered is kind of limited in terms of its ability and also the tribe. And Alex is crazy. But fortunately, with Uku, we have enough directions and card choices to not have to step outside of the core circle. And we get to be pickier when evaluating potential inclusions, looking at different factors like opportunity cost, for example. And yeah, that's the first thing I look at. For example, Banana Senpai mentioned Shifting Woodland. I didn't even need to read his excellent justification. I just alt-tabbed to the decklist and added it. Well, partly because I know how powerful this card is, but more importantly, there is no opportunity cost. It's just a land. Similarly, Red Fox Zhu Wu recommended Fur Dad Core.

[4:52] This one is much, much trickier because there is actually an opportunity cost. There will be times when I draw this in the opening hand and wish that it was the land or else that I cut for this. But it's not that far off, and the end game potential is glorious. So, I believe it's a yes. So, yeah, if a card can closely resemble another card that you already have, it's much easier to include. For example, C'Thunia Nightmare. In 90% of the scenarios, this is basically an enemy dead for our commander. So, I can just replace an Undying effect, but the potential upside is just massive. So, yeah, this one goes in. Another example is Grave Sifter. Now, in the comment, Astriomashes mentioned the synergy with Omni-Changeling. The two together straight up wins the game. And that's a pretty good upside, but the floor here is much lower than cards like C'Thunia Nightmare.

[5:34] It is generally only good in the late game when I have a lot of mana to take full advantage of the card advantage it generates. This is completely different than Reanimate, which is a cost-efficient add-on to clone effects to improve our tempo in the early game. In the opening hand, I would love to see a clone and a reanimate. But, a clone plus grave sitter is much less exciting. Well, this one is a little bit more costly than the ones we've mentioned earlier. So, for me it's a maybe, leaning towards no. Another great example of this is Insidious Roots. When I saw this mentioned from Black is Color, I thought, "Wow, this is perfect. How did I miss this?" I make a bunch of tokens, I have creatures leaving the graveyard with all the reanimation effects. So, this card feeds itself and can even be a win condition. But, after some thought, I ended up picking Enduring Vitality over this.

[6:17] And this is because the Elkin enchantment has a much higher floor, or in other words, a lower opportunity cost. In a pinch, Enduring Vitality is inexpensive mana dork, and also turns the original Ugu into another. Meanwhile, Insidious Roots requires us to have finished at least the first phase of our game plan to do anything. For this deck, the early game is definitely a bit of a bottleneck. So, we would rather have cards that help us get through the first few turns of the game than winning more later on. The suggestions of Doppelgang and Mondrak, also kind of fit into the same category of cards. And on that note, I decided to follow Terra Plant's advice to swap in lower cost ramp options with higher risk and less value to help accelerate our early game. So, with that in mind, you can see why I have to pass on the suggestions of Sedec and Zu Ifit.

[6:59] These are both cards that are relatively slow, but generate a constant stream of value. Same with the likes of Mycas and Driven Out. The one that really tempted me though was, surprisingly, a background suggested by Matthew Guritz. Again, a few hoops, but this can do a decent undying spell impression, and at the same time doubling the power on our board all for three mana. This one I'm actually very tempted to test. Another difficult one was suggested by Carlo Andre Set, Blade of Souls. This has potential to generate a lot more tokens than just a clone, and it goes crazy if you also have an undying effect. Plus, you can re-equip it onto new creatures. This is like a card made for EDH. So, without context, I might call someone crazy for playing the ancient outdated clone over this. But, with everything mentioned so far, you might just be able to see why I'm making this choice.

[7:42] And with a card choice this tight, you can probably see why we don't have much room for anything beyond the first level. For example, the land landra archmage, which does cool things when we have arcane adaptation. Same with something like ghost vacuum. Faces of the past was also mentioned to combo with earth craft effects. But once again, these are like two levels from our core strategy, which we will have to dilute to accommodate for cards like these. I mean, for how disciplined we've been, there's definitely some room for pet cards. So, yeah, by all means, play what you like. This brings us to the next criteria, impact. Despite being very conservative, if a card has high enough sheer impact, we are willing to jump through some hoops or take a little bit of risks. Joseph Jones did a great job explaining the crazy skilling of glade walker ritualist. Now, to do all of this, the card requires us to have a board of ugus and the cycle lid.

[8:27] But yeah, the sheer payoff of this is really difficult to say no to. Chopping changeling and especially acidic slime are similar in that sense. So, all of these are solid inclusions, but on the flip side, there are also cards that have simple, direct synergies, but not enough impact. There are those from this comment over here. For example, fatal shriek, burning one target opponent for one life per attacker just isn't quite enough. I mean, we are in the colors of gray merchant. Also, metallic mimic. In a tribe that is more aggressive and desperate for pump, maybe, but not here. So, yeah, card evaluation here is actually fairly simple. Everyone knows to look at the upside, the potential Christmas land scenarios, but it's just important to keep in mind the hidden cost of replacing a piece from your core game plan, even if it's with something that is just slightly slower.

[9:09] Hopefully, that makes sense. And you know what else makes sense? A giveaway when you reach certain milestones like 5,000 subscribers. Honestly, I never imagined this when I started my channel in mid 2025. I actually thought it would be closer to 50,000. But what keeps me going is realizing that whatever it is, it's not just a number, but actual people who I share a passion with. Ones who love the game and deck building as much as I do. Honestly, getting all these suggestions was amazing. And I would love to continue to hear from you in my future videos. Luckily, my sponsor Kakapopo TCG agrees with that. So, in the future, there will be a giveaway for every single video, but this one today is the biggest. First off, we're giving away two Monster Stand Deck Boxes. Now, I've been using these since before I started the channel, and they're holding up beautifully.

[9:51] And the design, I mean, see for yourself, it's pretty sweet. These I'll actually be given away to the commenters of my two previous videos, Ugu part one and part two. The only criteria are that you've commented there and subscribed to the channel. The winners will be chosen randomly. these, I will do the cut off right now, when this video goes live. So, if you haven't commented there, don't bother, unless you really want to. But more importantly, I've saved the grand prize for you in this video, the Kakapopo Deck Bento. And this one I've been using for almost 2 months now, and the aesthetics is so unique. Video doesn't even do it justice. It's got this super elegant design with striking patterns, and it even has this cloth to wrap everything up. And it's just awesome how they put so much thought into these designs, and they offer so much more, sleeves, dice.

[10:32] Click on the link in the description to see pictures of the grand prize, but meanwhile, you can feel free to browse through the site, see what they have to offer. If something there catches your eyes, good news, I also have a discount code, levels, all caps. Use that when you check out. So, how to win this Deck Bento? Literally, just be subscribed and comment on this video, anything you want. You can I mean, I'd love to hear about your approach to deck building. Are you as conservative and pragmatic as myself, or are you the more greedier Magical Christmas Land type of player? Or just comment anything. Hi. What's up? You suck. Yeah, and you're in. And the winners will be announced not in the next video, but the video after, so roughly in 2 weeks. I will also reply to your comment notifying you, and if you don't see it in time, I'll wait for you.

[11:15] I mean, I have the products here with me, so yeah, can't mess that up. Okay, this is Jin with Next Level Commander. I'm done with Ugu, I promise, but I'll be making more videos about legends from the Mystery Booster packs, and and they're also pretty amazing. So, I'll see you in the next video.
