# You NEED to Play More Protection Spells
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/3HifzYJ8aVI
date: 2025-09-05 | views: 10,079 | likes: 409 | comments: 136 | length: 11:39 | words: 2,497 | wpm: 214.6
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 1:20 Which Decks Need Protection?; 3:52 The Best Generic Protection Spells; 8:00 The Most Interesting Choices
tags: magic the gathering, edh, mtg, commander, removals, protection mtg

[0:00] I don't think there exists a category of cards as underappreciated in commander as protection spells. People just don't play them and when they do they gloss over some of the best ones. Yes, aside from Tefar's protection and heroic intervention, there's an entire trove of treasures waiting to be unlocked. And today we are doing just that. Hello, this is Jyn with Next Level Commander. And to demonstrate my authority on this topic, I did a quick audit of my top 10 favorite decks at the moment and it had a whopping total of 82 protection spells. Now, I may or may not have gone a little bit overboard here, but at least you can trust I know my preventative measures. In real life, we might use our magic cards as a shield from wanted and unwanted social interactions. But in the game, somehow our sense of safety goes out the window.

[0:43] Yeah, just run your big expensive value engine commander out there raw and surprise Pikachu when it gives birth to some monkey. Many people throw protection spells into the same category as combat tricks for being narrow and low impact. Not worth a card, aside from the aforementioned staples, of course. But like Manarox, Wizards has been pushing and pushing protection spells with almost every new set. And we are truly in the golden age of protection. No exaggeration here. So today, we're going to break down some of the cases where you should absolutely be playing a suite of protection spells and go over some really underrated ones that can convincingly outperform the stables in the right scenarios. Ah, let's go. So, what kind of decks would want protection spells? We'll open with the most obvious ones and go deeper from there.

[1:24] First up, the keystone commanders. These are decks that lean entirely on their commander to function. I love building decks like this actually because they feel unique, breaking us out of generic archetypes, but that strategy only works if you can keep your lynch pin on the board. Nah, the Eternal is an example. Your deck is probably filled with big spells and mana sings, and you won't find many alternatives to NEP for doing what he does. Rat's Lord of Riots, too. If your deck is filled with early pingers and giant greedy fatties, and it will fall apart if Ratoss gets taken out. Now, I know black and red are the worst colors for doing this, but actually it's got some surprisingly decent options besides the obvious, and we'll cover them later in the video. Next, value commanders. The ones that generate advantage by simply sticking around, and they more than make up for the cards you spent to ensure that they do.

[2:07] The likes of Cyus and Tatova probably can net you two cards a turn minimum. And Itali, for instance, is arguably worth dumping your entire hand to protect. And it's not just about direct card advantage. Something like Elishnorn, mother of machines, for instance, doesn't draw you cards, but getting two or three additional ETBs a turn is more than worth a card. Same with Feldon of the Third Path, an extra activation can net you so much value. And also in a similar vein, legends that are overly expensive, but can take over the game single-handedly. The Aison, Jacelas, and Omnoffs, these can easily go into double-digit cost with commander attacks. And as a trade-off though, them sticking around for two to three turns probably means game over for your opponents. Next up are decks that tend to commit creatures to the board early and fast.

[2:48] You know, the aggro decks, beatown decks, and a lot of Kindred builds. You come out the gate fast, applying pressure, but usually it's not enough to win the game. And at the same time, you're open to getting blown out four for one, five for one by a single board wipe. And this is where we go, whoops, we got carried away, and now we need some emergency protection. Once we have a decent board rather than overcommitting, hold a protection spell. This will catch a lot of your opponents offguard like them simic players expecting to be able to play greedy and clean everything up with single board wipe. This little surprise can be one of the best ways for aggro decks to steal games. Our final category is commanders that actively reward you for playing protection spells on them. Feather goes without saying and I have a gargos deck with around 20 protection spells.

[3:30] Brigen soldier of mitus is another example. But aside from this, if your commander has a solid enter the battlefield ability, the flicker and blink type protection spells can be excellent value and almost never a dead card. If your deck falls into any of these categories, playing some synergistic protection spells will make your deck better and more consistent. Now, we go over some of the best choices for different scenarios. First, the all-rounded ones. Free is always the number one upside for cards as situational as protection spells, and we've gotten some pretty sweet options. For most decks, we want our protection spells to be as cheap as possible because holding up one mana is just so much easier than holding up two in anything that isn't a draw go deck. So, we'll prioritize lowc cost first step. One mana, we have access to hexroof, indestructible, or protection from a chosen color.

[4:15] They all have their pros and cons. Indestructible is butter against board wipes. Hex proof blanks all spot removals, while protection from a color is a situationally better hexroof with the added perks of forcing through your voltron commanders and once in a while satisfyingly disassembling aura decks. Another solid subset is the flicker effects like ephemerate and cloud shift. They're excellent for reusing enter the battlefield commanders and creatures, but they also don't protect us from boardw. Oh, and I almost forgot about them, but the mothers, they absolutely deserve to be in this conversation, even though I never like them much. and because they're slow and I have to drop them early, which makes you even more vulnerable to getting X for one by a board wipe. However, in practice, I've seen them do excellent work. And one of the best arguments for them is the ability to deter removals rather than trying to counter them after cast because a removal spell safe against Doom now might get spent on another opponent later on.

[5:04] So yeah, everything has their limitations and this is partly why Tomio's safekeeping is relatively popular for giving close to complete protection from spot removals and board wipes. Lawrence escape is the white counterpart. Both are solid choices, but like manow rocks, they're continuing to push protection spells with seemingly every set. Tyor stand is so so versatile being a solid protection spell in a space form, but late game can serve as a massive mana sync, allowing you to kill with commander damage out of seemingly nowhere. Another favorite of mine is defend the rider. The one- one option is a decent surprise chump blocker, but more importantly, it covers a glaring weakness of the aforementioned choices. And we're still getting better from here. Restoration magic bonkers.

[5:44] The base tier is already excellent being able to protect any permanent, but the option of curaga when you have the mana is brilliant, keeping all your permanence alive and that six life. I know this may seem expensive compared to heroic intervention, but the versatility is massive here. When it comes to the most complete protection though, nothing beats phasing. I'm sure users and victims of deferious protection can attest to that. Galadriel's Dismissal is like a less complete but more versatile tof protection being one of the best singlet target protection spells for just one mana and the kicker option is also really reasonably costed. While clearing out your board for a turn may be a slightly risky play without being protected yourself, you're probably kicking this in response to a board wipe anyways, so you're most likely safe.

[6:27] Gladriel can also do a crappy tofarious impression by facing out one opponent's stuff, which is close enough in a lot of scenarios. Yeah, card is nuts. If you have one, play it. By now, I'm sure you see the abundance of powerful options in green and especially white. But what about the other colors? Well, blue is a bit awkward because I mean, you can just play the low mana counter spells. However, there are some decent one mana options and the best one of them all slip out the back. If the free counter spells are outside our budget, playing these lowc cost, low impact ones can be justified if your deck really leans heavily on the commander. For instance, I have an Arami deck that is a bit all or nothing. If I lose Arammy, I'm playing a bunch of random Kindred cards. With Arammy, though, I go off fast.

[7:08] In this case, cards like slip out the back and Magic Temper are justifiable. And as always, red gets the short end of the stick. The redirect spells can sometimes lead to the biggest blowouts, but our options really are limited. Aside from these though, we'll have to rely on some of the colorless options we'll go over later. Black at a glance may also seem limited, but cards like Undying Malice and Maliker Rebirth will prevent any destruction with the unique perk of triggering any dying and ATB effects. Coupled with sad cutless like high market or fireex tower, we can also dodge exhaust spot removals. Kaya's ghost form is another unique one is preemptive, so no surprise factor, but with this attached is near impossible for your opponents to deal with your commander with any one removal spell. And finally, if you squint hard enough, Reanimate is close enough to a Galadrio's dismissal, right?

[7:53] Especially if you have sack outlets. Okay. Now, if we try opening up the mana cost limitation, you will discover a ton of really interesting options. Two mana, for instance, opens up delayed blink in white. This is similar to phasing in that it is a catch-all protection while triggering the ETBs. Long roll home and other worldly journey are excellent, but one of my favorites in this category is parting gust with slightly more restrictive mana cost. This serves as a blink spell or a removal whichever you need more at the moment or just get both with getaway glamour. The base is a long rolled home but if you happen to have extra mana or the need it also kills the thing. These three cards are actually so pushed I swear every single one of them feels playable. Now this next one for example smuggler surprise.

[8:34] I think people are sleeping on this by not evaluating it actual base mode which is hidden at the bottom. This for two mana does a solid heroic intervention impression if your deck is creature based. I mean you're in green. What else is there to do? And the other abilities here being mix and matchable is just so versatile. Honestly, I think this is one of the best green cards from recent sets. Now, this next one is even better, but sees even less play. Final showdown. Unlike Smuggler Surprise, this is not a base protection spell. It is one of the best board wipes in the game, but being able to give a creature indestructible for just two mana allows this to replace any protection spell and perform double duty. Now, for more specific scenarios, an aggro deck, for instance, would have to make a choice between leaving a protection mana or continuing to build the board.

[9:17] While some cards allow you to do both, Grand Crescendo is the top pick in my book. Two mana to give indestructible to everything is already very playable. Mughal's Veiler is a less flexible version of that, but can be just as powerful. These cards I often just chuck out there, make a bunch of tokens, and apply more pressure, even if the protection part is wasted. Similarly, the flip aison is a solid flying threat that is totally fine to just play. Be careful though with the flip ability. You don't want to wipe your own board. Another solution to this problem is the set and forget ones like Selfless Spirit, Boromir, Dauntless Escort, and Selfless Glyph Weaver. These are all excellent, especially when combined with creature recursion effects. Although for any creature deck, the best protection spell is always a Chroma's Will.

[9:57] Not close. And this card does everything. Casting it on a full board usually means game over. Even if they're still alive, your opponents are never racing you after this. and using this as a protection spell may feel bad, but it's nice to have the option in a pinch. Now, in decks with more ETB effects, higher mana cost opens the door to mass blinking. I mean, these are also protection spells, all right, but sometimes they can straight up win you the game if you get enough triggers. Now, we're getting more and more narrow if your commander is seven power or greater or can easily get to that point. Not of this world is a treat from the olden days. And besides spells, they've also printed a bunch of equipments that can function similarly with myithal coat from Lord of the Rings and Celestial Armor in Foundations. And also there's silver shell costume.

[10:37] Excellent card. If your deck has a decent amount of instance, Veilstone Amulet is a really interesting pick turning every instant into protection. And at this point, if you're still not convinced about protection spells, somehow at least start with the lance. Malacher Rebirth is one. Revitalizing Repast and Sajuri Shelter are also options with low opportunity cost. Plaza of Heroes is expensive, but it's a solid land even if you never use the protection ability. And Talon Case of Madara is one of those freakishly pushed cards being ramp protection and pseudo removal allin one. So that's a decent roundup of protection spells. I'd say please give them a try. You will find that protecting what you have is sometimes so much more efficient than finding another one or recasting it again from the command zone.

[11:19] Practice safe magic. Which ones are you adding to your decks? Do you have a commander that synergizes unfairly well with protection spells? Let me know in the comments. At this point, I'm still able to read and reply to all of them, but it's starting to get a bit overwhelming, which is a good problem to have. Thank you all. This is Jyn with Next Level Commander. Please subscribe if you enjoy this content, and stay tuned for more. See
