# Why Your Ozai Deck Doesn't Work
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/3Kh3Kupf2WI
date: 2025-11-18 | views: 2,426 | likes: 77 | comments: 6 | length: 7:01 | words: 1,369 | wpm: 196.6
tags: Fire Lord Ozai, Commander, Edh, Magic the Gathering, Avatar, MTG, Ozai

[0:00] Among the many lessons we can learn from Fire Lord Ozai, here's the top three. One, the dangers of unchecked ambition and hubris. Number two, the corrosive nature of toxic family dynamics. And three, EDH players are great at finding synergies but terrible at evaluating them. What do I mean by that? Well, you see Ozai's ability, mana equals power. Okay, we found the line, boys. We filled the deck with big power sackfoders turning three mana into seven, even eight. Wow, look at this big dumb warp guy. We're netting six mana. That's like one free Ozai activation. But after all this, how much value are we getting? Really? Italy players should know this.

[0:40] When you flip just the top deck, you whiff a lot. Especially when unlike Italy, you don't even get to flip your own stuff. And you only get to pick one spell among them. So you're not winning with quantity either. So, all of this work for just one flip. You're you're probably better off ramping harder, like an artifact deck, chaining rock into rock, and you should be able to get to two activations fairly quickly. And at least rocks can do other things, too, like powering out fatties that actually, you know, do things which Ozai can also eat. That seems like a reasonably powerful direction, but then at the same time, we want an Ozai deck. If we just want big mana decks, then there are better options. So, it's a difficult line to walk. Trying to maintain a deck's identity while avoiding traps like these.

[1:24] So, I had to keep looking. But among the dumb idiots, one stood out. Malignus. Yeah, this one is not like the others. This one is huge. We're easily getting three activations with it. And this, in my opinion, is worth spending a turn on. Barely, but it's a decent enough game plan. So, what if instead of these, we dedicate our card slots to tutoring for and recurring malignance? almost like a secret commander type deal. And if we can consistently devour Malignus once or even twice a turn, that's a solid magical Christmas land scenario. Every deck needs a Christmas land and we are looking for the season ticket. So, we are tutoring. It really is annoying how black and especially red has never printed anything even close to this for 13 years.

[2:05] So, we need to make sure we get this card malignous all the time. And while we try to avoid infinence, the deck does play a bit like assembling mini combos. So getting the tutor for the different pieces is still pretty important. Yeah, tutors are good. Hot take. Anyways, we've got nine of them. That's like having nine copies of malignant. Intomb variants are a bit risky, but we also do have a bunch of reanimation spells. Scheming symmetry is chosen because of interesting political implications when combined with Ozai's ability. Even with all the protection we can give, which frankly isn't too much in the Ratos colors, the possibility of losing Malignus forever to a source of shares or just a piece of graveyard hate is real.

[2:46] So, we do need some backup plans. Ulamach and Sewer Nemesis. Yeah, quite a downgrade, I know. Expensive or inconsistent. Ideally, we wouldn't have to call on these idiots until mid to late game. And when we do, they should be at least maybe 12 power or more, which is serviceable. Also relevant when Malagnus' power drops. inevitably with opponent's life totals. Ulamog is also interesting in that if you get to the point, you can attack with it and Ozai and still get the massive annihilator trigger before sacrificing it for mana. And since we're looking to use malignance over and over again, we're packing the deck with these undying effects. Some of them even pump the creature a little bit. That's awesome. And a reanimation package for the same purpose, but also to work with the the inmb effects.

[3:30] I love that Zuko's conviction fits here. So now we have an engine going. Every turn we can activate Ozai three times. That should give us enough advantage to keep up with the game and potentially look for ways to win. But why stop here? Now we're in combat with 90 mana floating and a fresh malignance. An extra combat or two sounds like a decent idea. We prioritize the instant speed ones because of the mana we get during combat, but these heavily discounted ones should also do fine. The undying spells along with any sack outlet is solid protection for our commander and the malignus. But just a few more to keep things extra safe. And just a few pieces of extra value. Nefosy to copy our stolen spells. Flare of the hatebound and terror of the peaks to trigger with malignus over and over again.

[4:14] And finally ramp. We have a decent number of rocks here and the herborg coffers package. That's quite a few cards dedicated to ramping. It's because a lot of our stuns here can be mana hungry. And more importantly, our commander is an outlet that can potentially turn mana into everything else. For draw spells, we have the standard getting a black market connections on turn three is always the dream play, but also a few that synergize with a deck like disciple of bolas and rune grinder. Stinging study is interesting cuz usually people don't play this unless your commander is huge, but even five mana for four is not terrible considering how much instant speed mana we have access to. And usually I'm a bit iffy with wheels, but in this deck I think it's fine because of how much we interact with the graveyard and also we need to dig for a tutor or a malignous fast.

[5:01] And that's all. Yeah, we're not playing any answers or other utility. Basically depending 100% on our opponents to feed us ammunition for lens. We are going full on utility. The MDFC's are always great, but the most important lens here are the sack outlets and this because maybe once in a while we want to send Malignus in for some beating. Erdza's cave as a backup herb work or coffers and talent skate of Madera as an extra form of protection. If you haven't noticed by now, the deck is not for everyone. This actually deviates quite a bit from the decks I usually build in that is really swingy and inconsistent. It's got the highest of highs and the lowest of lows. When the pieces come together, we are activating Ozai three, five, even seven times a turn.

[5:42] But there will be times when you're stuck with three extra combat spells in your hand while Ozai is busy disrespecting SOA. Another issue with decks like these is they're really opponent dependent. For instance, I know for a fact I won't be doing too well with my group because, no offense, but they're a bunch of idiots. I mean, even with three flips, I'll end up with a shrine, some crappy aristocrats fodder, and maybe maybe a draw spell. Also remember, Malignus requires us to keep one opponent at a high life total while attacking the other two only, but Ozai wants us to kill everyone at the same time ideally because if we kill someone, we lose their stuffs. Ozai becomes significantly weaker when we have fewer opponents. So yeah, this deck does have some hoops we have to jump through.

[6:24] We are living for that one glorious moment. It's also quite costly because of the tutors and technically higher than bracket three for the same reason. But in reality, it's probably a three at best and self adjusting because we're dependent on opponent's cards. Again, not a deck for everyone, but if you're bored and want something different, Ozai might just be for you. This is Jyn with Next Level Commander. Thank you for tuning in to my third Avatar deck tech. Please like and subscribe if you've made it this far. Obviously, you like something about my videos or you are just asleep and in that case, sweet
