# I have NO IDEA how this deck works but it's only $49, so I'm hoping you can test it and tell me. thx
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/3pAgXw_Q9pg
date: 2026-09-22 | views: 13,153 | likes: 263 | comments: 145 | length: 9:21 | words: 2,117 | wpm: 226.4

[0:00] Hello everyone, this is Jin with next level commander. I built a deck. I played with it a few nights actually. I even made a video about it, but even now I can't say I know exactly how this deck works. Yeah, this is probably the most irresponsible video I'll ever make. But yeah, I'm just going to throw this out there and see the world burn. So, I'm making this video copying the deck at $49 so you all can test it for me and tell me how it works. Well, to be fair, I can explain individual cards like what what they do. But the problem is when they meet each other. Invited by this guy. There are just so many overlapping interactions that that every time I'm about to make a sick sequence of plays, I discover two more that are better.

[0:43] And my play group is starting to lose patience. So, what does this actually do? Are you almost done? I want to go home. But it's important to remember that we cannot afford to lose our friends. At least not until we've collected enough testing for this deck. So, yeah, I'm crowd sourcing this to you. Uh, why don't we give it a try? Well, let's try a few test scenarios to see if you are at least more competent than I am. But before that, we need to introduce our commander deck Faden. When Dack Faden enters, you reveal three creatures from your library. You get their ETB triggers and then you choose an opponent to give them to and the creatures are golded. Now, a few important things that took me a while to figure out. The first one is that you get the ETB triggers despite donating the creatures.

[1:24] So, no, you cannot use it to world eater an opponent. But you do get all the sweet ETB triggers which is much more important. And the second much more fringe ruling is that when creatures ETB from Dack Faden's ability, if they have a targeted ETB ability, you don't choose the targets just yet. The Dack Faden ability resolves first, all the creatures are donated to the opponents of your choice, then the ETB triggers are put on the stack and that's when you select the targets. And you will see why this is relevant. Now, time for the puzzles. Scenario one. Let's start simple. This is the board. The highlighted cards are owned by us, and these three creatures just entered from our deck trigger. What's the line? Assuming there's nothing in the graveyard.

[2:04] Just imagine how long is it going to take before you even make a play in this scenario. Oh, ain't nobody got time for that. We're moving on to scenario B. This one I actually encountered during a game. I forgot to highlight the creatures, but the white creatures are owned by us, all of them. I think it was turn seven or eight, I can't remember, but but this was the Dack Fayden pile, and from this I won the game after about 15 minutes of thinking. So, yeah, here are the board states. The opponent's creatures don't really matter. It's all about how we are looping and recycling our creatures. And finally, this board. Yep. Here is the Dack Fayden pile, and oh, yeah, I I I forgot to mention that I don't have answers to these, especially not this one.

[2:45] Do I have an infinite combo? Is the game over? I have no idea. I I did warn you this video has zero accountability. For the most part, you are on your own, but I do want to talk a little bit about how I came to this deck. Cuz you know, Dack Fayden is broken. And but you go through this phase where you see the creature, you're like, "Wow, this is I can do all these clever tricks. Yeah, I can do this, and oh, yeah, this just wins on the spot." Yeah, it's like when I thought I discovered the hidden gems of Witherbloom and the Green Goblin. But this is such a sweet concept though. It's It just looks so much fun, and I wanted to build it. So then, naturally, the solution is to go budget. Just to play Dack Fayden and blink him a bunch of times. Seems simple enough. You don't even need Homeward Path, that's like $17.

[3:26] Because your opponents will kill each other with your creatures, and when they do, the the dead player will return all of their borrowed creatures to you because they actually entered the battlefield under your control. That seems simple enough until I looked at the creatures. Turns out white doesn't have a lot of great creatures to donate. And because so many of them have keywords like lifelink, vigilance, you don't want that. And also, you don't want any activated or triggered abilities that they can benefit from. front. with the budget limitation, it actually limits our choices by quite a bit. And that was until I realized the interactions we can do with these Banisher Priest effects. They can be used as soft removal when you exile opponent's creatures. Yeah, imagine if I exile Alex's commander and give it to Ross and exile Ross's commander and give it to Alex.

[4:07] Now, they don't want to block with these cards anymore. Another use for these is they can reset the bigger creatures we donate, exiling them, and they will return under our control because we are the owner. And finally, a few of these can be used to blink Dak Fayden. Not Banisher Priest though. How these creatures work is when they enter, the donation happens, and then their abilities are put on the stack. So, with Banisher Priest, I can choose for it to exile itself because now it is controlled by my opponent. So, then, when that happens, it blinks itself and returns itself to my side of the battlefield, which then you can use to exile something on on the opponent's side. And this is as much as I can tell you. And how does Fiend Hunter work? Well, I'll have you know that I've just been blocked by my local judge, so you're going to have to ask yours and let me know. I also have a few of these self-blink creatures.

[4:48] These are here specifically to reset our commander for another goal. Now, keep in mind, these cannot exile other creatures that were drawn from the same trigger. Because once again, the creatures are donated, and then this exile trigger is put on the stack. And also, we have a few blink spells to reset Dak Fayden at instant speed. Holding one of these in hand with an interlocked board like this, your decision tree probably have hundreds of branches. And if you made it this far into the video, that's the kind of scenario you live for, isn't it? Okay, now, moving on to the actual creatures, the fun stuff. We do have plenty of room for that. Actually, in this deck, I don't think it matters too much how many creatures you play. It could be 10, 20, 30. I'm currently doing 16 blink creatures and 16 value creatures, but you can definitely cut down on that.

[5:29] And for these creatures, once again, I prioritized ones with solid ETB effects, and I tried to avoid keywords like lifelink and vigilance because I still want my opponents to be beating each other up. So, yeah, a lot of these ETB removal triggers are excellent. And for some of the more interesting effects, for example, we have Soul of Eternity. With the the quantity of creature removals, even temporary ones, there's a really high chance that we can help one opponent force it through into another opponent. Not to mention these tappers, these are excellent. Because with permanent gold effects, the last thing you want is the creatures canceling each other out via combat. And by timing these tappers right, your opponents will never get a chance to block with the golded creatures. Sandstone Oracle is excellent. We are very desperate for card draw. The moment this comes down, I'm blinking it over and over again.

[6:10] Also, Salvation Clauses. This is one of the hardest hitters you can donate. Although you have to be careful giving this to someone with a massive board state that is not sponsored by you. Do not do that. It will backfire. But when it does, it's okay because you have Resolute Archangel. This card is nuts. Hopefully you don't flip it too early. In the late game, this is like the single card you want to see the most. Okay, those are the donatable creatures. Again, these slots are super flexible. You can play pretty much whatever you want. Experiment, try different things. I do think ETBs are the best because of the flickering shenanigans, but if you find that to be too oppressive, you can just play dumb beaters. The deck will still work. Okay, now for pieces that smooth out the deck. Of course, ramp, we need lots of ramp. Dark Confidant is our number one game plan, not close.

[6:52] But if he gets shut down, like countered or turned into a moon, the average mana value of our deck is like five or six. So you do need them. Do keep in mind you want to avoid playing creatures for anything else aside from your core game plan, so you can be more consistent with your hits. Another utility I found to be really useful for smoothing the deck out is looters. Yeah, these are not super efficient, but because we can't afford things like Scroll Rack, being able to dump our big creatures to loot into ramp or blink spells, it turned out to be really useful when I played the deck. And finally, I have a few end game pieces. Honestly, I don't know how much I need these because I feel like the core of the deck can already close the games pretty aggressively. But a lot of these are really fun, like Sudden Salvation. Yeah, when your creatures die from combat or board wipe, just get them back.

[7:34] Same with Storm of Souls, you get everything back. You can they can exile each other and reset the power and toughness if you want. Same thing for Rally the Ancestors. This one does exile the creatures, but I've just got a feeling you might be able to get around that, maybe? Probably not. You are a fair magic player. The Eagles are coming. This card is made for this deck. It's brilliant. And of course, perch protection. Time this card right, and we win the game. So, there you have the deck. The land base is nothing too special. We don't have a lot of budget for that, but we do have these that can remove our own creatures, so we can free Dak Fayden at instant speed. And that's the entire deck. I I'm not going to talk much about how the deck works, cuz honestly, I barely know it myself. Hopefully, it's not too oppressive, not hopefully not too many combos in the deck.

[8:18] There's probably some. I do have to say though, make sure you are very familiar with how the stack works, with the decision trees, maybe practice a bit by yourself, because you will end up with massive, massive decision trees. Sometimes you will have to plan several steps ahead, which can be extremely difficult with, you know, interactions and with how things get removed and how things come back. I think this deck is suited for the most experienced players. Unless you have the most helpful, the most tolerant playgroup, in which case, congratulations. And that's it, Dak Fayden, the helping hand. For this video, I'm not going to announce giveaway winners, but we will continue to have another giveaway. Once again, the same rules. You can check the video description, but for this video, I want to be a bit more lax with the card recommendations.

[9:00] Yeah, if you try the deck, if you, you know, give me some feedback on how the deck works, of course, you get extra entries into the giveaway. That's exactly what I need. You know, the different plays and different interactions you've discovered. But yeah, thank you so much for watching all the way till the end. If you're interested, check out my sponsor Kakapopo TCG. They have excellent products. Use my code levels for a 5% discount. And that's all. I will see you later.
