# Can Flubs the Idiot get his crap together against the average table?  | Playing With Myself Ep.1
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/3tnyV9AEz_k
date: 2026-01-28 | views: 1,613 | likes: 49 | comments: 28 | length: 1:05:58 | words: 10,289 | wpm: 156.0

[0:00] Hey, how are you doing? I've been gone for a while. I know. And I apologize for that. I know there are dozens of you out there waiting for my content. And today I bring you something very different. A gameplay video, but all by myself. Yes, there's no need for friends. And I never lose. Actually, I can lose because I'm trying to make it so that there's kind of one main character each series. In today's episode, we have Flubs. Yes, the legendary idiot that does deliver excellent payoff, but also shoots itself in the foot every chance it gets. And since we're messing with ourselves, we got to mess with our opponents, too, right? So, we have over 35 copies of removals in the deck. And we hope to disrupt everyone while we build up some advantage and eventually take over the game with these storm payoff cards.

[0:46] And today, we're going to test the deck against your average table. I'm trying to simulate what the average pot would look like at your local game store. Starting with the oldie but goody Kalia ranked at number five despite being more than a decade old. Holding strong here is your typical Kalia deck. Big angels, demons, and dragons. Nothing special, but it's always a blast to play and apply some early pressure to the table. And following that, we have Bellow at rank 34. One of the most popular new commanders from the past couple years, giving a new twist to the Enchantress build. But we are doing something a little bit different. We are going for artifacts. I don't think it's quite as good as the enchantment version, but it can be really explosive with the amount of ramp and arguably is more resilient with better protection and recursion.

[1:29] And our third opponent is a lateg game deck with not the most popular commander, but an archetype you'd commonly see in groups. Mill the master aims to mill our opponents while stealing from their graveyards. This deck isn't your typical simic value build, but it does become more powerful as it survives to the late game. more about this format after the game, but if you have any suggestions, please let me know in the comments. So, with no further ado, let's begin our game. Playing with myself cuz friends are overrated. Okay, let's begin. So, let's pick our first player um with our app here. Looks like we're starting. Okay, starting with flips. So, let's do that. Draw our opening hand. Take a look at what we can get.

[2:10] Oo, land. Land. Sorcerers class. Land. Land. Okay. Wait, that's seven cards. Seven cards, five lens. Honestly, I think this is pretty good. And when I cast sorcerers class, I'll probably keep more lands. Yeah, depending on what I what we draw next. Um, ideally, we want something like exploration or a zusa. But yeah, usually with fluffs, you're pretty like you're free to keep whatever really as long as you have lands. Yeah, I mean, in theory, seven lands is pretty good. Yeah, because you're eventually dumping your hand and all those lands will be played. And once you play them, you are set for for the next few turns. So, we will keep this.

[2:51] Yeah, no complaints here. Next up, let's take a look at Bellow. Okay, Cyberman. That was test. Okay, this is not looking good. No, not no not enough lands. Too many big mana artifacts. That's the problem with Bellow. Yeah, we early game we don't have enough ramp or setup and uh we we it will be really slow by the time we cast these. So will be like turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn seven seven seven turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn turn eight eight no nope okay mulligan three lands protection spell okay this is good this is good um not ideal because we don't have like a four or five drop uh artifact but having you know having the talisman here having a protection spell it's good and war room nice yeah I think this is fine I Hopefully we draw well, but um yeah, this is an average start for Val.

[3:46] If we don't get there, if this happens too often, then we should look to adjust the deck a little bit. But right now, let's we'll try it. We're just testing. Okay, now the master draw. This looks good. Yes, this looks good. One more. Yo, this is perfect. Yeah, I mean ideally we want a two drop ramp, but having this and this is nice. We are really well set up for the early game. And wait, is this the one? No, this is the recursion spell. Yes. So, not as good. I was hoping for the two drop ramp. What's it called? I forgot. But there is a manador MDFC. So, this is fine. Let's keep it. And Calia.

[4:28] Okay, this looks amazing already. Yeah. Um, Arena Signit. We just need one demon, one angel that can draw us cards like a big bomb. We can farewell. Okay. Oh, just give me give me ah no, you don't have the demon. But I mean, black market is fine. Although turn three, we should be caliing with haste. But either way, we are not complaining. It's just we're not, you know, we don't have a perfect start, but this is pretty close to as good as it can get in terms of resource. Yeah, we have card draw, we have ramp, and we have a farewell. So, let's keep this. Okay, moving on to turn one with flubs. Let's draw another land. Why not? Let's start with are we going to cycle this?

[5:10] Probably not. So, let's Yeah, we're not spending three mana to cycle this. So, let's play it. Pass. Draw. Okay. Echoes of eternity. Um, play a land. Pass the master. Draw. Factor fiction. Seems good. Let's play a tap land and pass the turn. Talia. Oh, we got the speed demon. That's awesome. Oh, that's good. That's good. But let's not play the arena just yet. Let's use our fetchland to get a trieland so that this enters untapped and our mana is fixed. Okay, pay one life. Here's the triand flops on top. Draw another land.

[5:52] I think this is where we uh I think we can do a sorcerer class. We'll try to dig for a extra land card, but if we don't get it, we'll see what we get. Um, let's do that. Draw two. Yeah, we might. Uh, honestly, do we need a wear and tear on this board? No. I don't think we're going to wear and tear. We're just going to flubs and try to play as many lands as possible. So, let's dump the wear and tear and dump this land, I guess. Not very useful. Volcanic Fissure. Um, and pass on top. Bellow draw another land. Not Not ideal here. Um, let's play uh War Room, I guess. Play War Room. play a signate you we really need to top deck a four drop artifact five drop I'll settle for a five drop but any slower than that we are not going to have a good early game with bellow on top draw mill card maddening cacophony so we've got lots of mill yeah we have a pretty decent game plan at this moment right I like it although I shouldn't play this land my apologies I should be playing this t land

[6:56] yes good good pass Draw Velocut Stone Forge. I think we can use this as a spell. Try to dig for more demons and angels. But for now, we are going to arena. Oh, no, no, no. Don't play this just yet so people don't know about it. Play signate first. Yes, we can play arena next for a surprise. Yes, they will be very surprised. They will not see it coming. Okay. On top with flubs draw. Oh, we drew the Isusa just in time, actually. Wow. Okay. Oh, sorry. Let's play our first land. Play Atusa and play two more lands. Wow, this is good.

[7:38] Land. Land. Yeah, that's fine. Um, then we level up sorcerers class because we have nothing else to do. Pay one life happens. The reason I'm not fetching is just because I want to have more lands in the deck at this moment. Doesn't matter too much, but might not matter more than the one extra life we're paying. So, but it's it's kind of marginal. We'll see. On top with bellow artifact, five. Uh, not the worst one. Not the worst. Not ideal because I mean, we play this. We need another artifact, right? Mirror works. I mean, so let's let's Yeah, let's thin the deck a little bit. Again, I talk like it matters.

[8:19] It really doesn't, but yeah, you want to feel like you're playing tight, right? So, let's get a at this point, I think we can get a shock. Oh, no. We want to get a dolan for to act activate war room. Yes. Okay, we got the to activate war room with cost two life to activate war room, but it's fine. Also, we can soak that if we have to. Probably don't. Untap. Draw. I like grass tentacles. That's a cool card, but we're not going to use it just yet. We're going to ramp. Yeah, we want to use this with our commander, the master. So, let's go reach first. Get a blue and a black search.

[9:00] Black in play and blue in head. Okay, draw. Oh, it's a good one, but not for this turn. So, let's drop our arena and yeah, let's go for it. So, we exert the arena. Yes. And send out Kalia. Who do we attack? Who's doing well at the moment? Doesn't seem like I guess flubs is doing best with a Zusa. Yeah, no one flops. It's kind of the one of the best cards in the deck. So, let's punish flops a little bit with a speed demon. Speed one 1 2 3 4 5 6 7.

[9:42] I won't bother with commander damage for Calia. Um hopefully it won't come back to bite me, but speed two. And at the end of turn, I will lose two life and draw two cards. Angel. Ooh, good. Good. Sarah, Emissary. Again, not the best one because we we're not really on the defense right now, but it's I mean, we can use this to name, you know, instance, right? Yeah. Well, we'll see. We'll see. Next turn, we might just do this. Try to if if Kalias lives, we'll do do this and try to get something huge. None of these will help us snowball, and we want something like that. So pass flops is feeling a bit threatened but at the moment we're still okay.

[10:25] 32 life. Oh wow. Okay. Okay. So what we do here is play. So right now we have four land drops. We'll play three out of the No, we'll play two out of the four. Then we play flubs. Now we have five land drops with two used. We'll play our third land out of five. Draw a card. That correct? That is correct. Oh, this is now let's play our fourth land out of five. Draw a card. Oh, we don't want another land. Our fifth land out of five. Draw a card. Oh, we don't want that. Maybe we use the horizon. Not to put a land into play, but to draw one more card because we we'll be kind of stuck anyways next turn with two cards in hand.

[11:12] So, I might as well draw the extra card now and try to find it. Uh, that's just one card though. Is it worth it? No, I don't think it's worth it because we're getting one card and if it's a removal, sure, but could be anything. And we are sacrificing the land because the Horizon also have another mode where I can just drop this land from hand into play tapped, which will get us out of this uh out of the the pickle anyways. Uh, so we will not do that. We'll crack our two fetch lands and level up this class. Um yeah. So level up and we need uh we don't have mana.

[11:53] Oh, we do have mana to level up all the way. So uh no, we want to save mana for progress. My apologies. So we used one land here and then we'll get two more lands. One tapped and one Got tapped because I paid for the paid for the level up and level. There you go. Pass the turn. End of turn. Double. Well, Waroo was two life. Draw a card. Everflow chalice. Not what we need. Draw one more. Forest. Oh, slow turns. Slow turns. But mirror works. Let's get that out there for now.

[12:34] I don't think this even works with everflowing chalice does it? No, I don't think so. Oh well, it can attack. Pass the master on top. Are we worried about Kalia? We are. But is there anything we can do about Kalia? Not really. Like we can play our commander and try to start Maybe that's correct. Or do we just ramp? I think at this point we can command her into grasp or into cut your losses just to get something huge from Kalia to to keep things up. Otherwise, if we ramp again, we won't have any threat until two turns after this and it might be too late. So, I think we I mean it's very tempting to go greedy with this, but I think it's correct to to get our commander out, try to make something happen, right?

[13:19] So, commander the master and I will give the rat counters to myself, I think. Yeah, because the master can't tap on opponent's turns just yet. So, ratting ourselves is at least we can get something we can potentially use. So, we've got two rat counters here. Yes. And we pass the turn on top with Kalia. Doesn't on top. This is great. Yeah. No one dealt with Kalia draw. Oh, Jala. It's very good. Do we vol stone forge? I mean, do we use the spell on this or do we just uh drop? I think we're not exactly short on Yeah.

[14:02] So, justella do more damage is fine. So, let's send our things into tended to say fluffs again. The master is scary, but let's divide it a little bit. Okay, so Kalia and the demon will go at the master. Meanwhile, Justella will go at Flops. Okay, so the I don't think there are any blockers here. So, we've got do how much damage is that? 14. Meanwhile, Flops takes 10. Ouch. Then we do our signate into black market connections play. And also, our speed goes up to three.

[14:43] Okay, here. And we draw three cards and lose three life. Brilliant start one. Oh, we win next turn. Well, although we probably shouldn't expect to keep this forward, but if we do, if we do with full throttle, we will just finish the game. This is Kalia pass. Oh, lose three life. My apologies. But yeah, I will miss a lot of things. Maybe misplays and even rules or forgetting triggers. Let me know. Please, please let me know in the comments, right? Because um these mistakes will be common and I'm trying to get better at this. It's a lot to keep track of. So, end turn. I will lose one life to drop this land. But 19 life. Yeah, we don't have much time. Fortunately, our resources are built up. So, as long as we don't get, you know, five lands in a row, we can definitely do something this turn with flips.

[15:29] Maybe even with a leveled up sorcerers class with a max level one. I mean, actually, this should be level two. Okay, draw first land. Let's keep them separate. Draw. Oh, this is a great We want to Yeah, this is great. We can wipe everything. Although when we wipe everything, we will also wipe our board. So let's take a look. We can do five. We can do five Do we do three? No. No. I think we can leave three. Five, seven, four. Do we do two? I think two is fine to do. Yeah, let's do five, seven, four, and two. So one, two, three. Now I have to pay four more.

[16:09] This is one of the better answers in this deck. So four more. Right. No, three more. My apologies. Three more because we're choosing four in total. We're choosing two. Sorry, one second. Do we choose two? Because if you choose two, we'll end up with two cards in hand. That will get us stuck. So maybe not even two. Just Okay. Like this. We're doing five, four, seven. Final answer. Final answer. Yes. Oh, Kalia is sad. So is Bellow. There are no responses. I believe there no responses. So this gets bounced. Master gets bounced. Meanwhile, everything here gets bounced. Almost everything. Okay.

[16:49] And uh flubs, we lose nothing. We get to draw a card. Chaos warp. Which one do we warp? Let's warp the We can tap these two to pay for the cost. Uh let's warp one, two, three. Do we warp the arena or the black market connections? I think the arena because haste is huge. Like we are we're at 19 life, right? And clearly we are winning at this point. So let's warp the uh although with Kalia is a bit risky, but I think we do it. So let's warp the arena of glory. Chaos warp. And we draw a card.

[17:30] This is a creature removal, but it's also a land. So we'll play this later. Chaos warp happens. Shuffle this away. Cut myself flip announcing reasonable not the worst outcome. And we'll play this land. I guess tapped just because life is kind of short now. So this is our second land. Third land. Top is brilliant. Rapid hybridization. There's no target Is this where we top? I should have taught early. Probably should have taught or or maybe we level up the sorcerers class and hold this rapid hybridization in case anything happens and we can win the turn after.

[18:22] I think that's a good plan. That's a good plan because we're otherwise we have to kind of go nuts with the land with the top. Try to dig more spells and there are not enough targets on the board at this point and we play three lands this turn. So it's not not bad. So let's do that. One, two, three, four, five. Five. Uh we're paying two. two life for this. Not this, sorry. For leveling up our sorcerers class. If this sticks, then we pretty we're pretty likely to win next turn. And we pass the turn. Bellow on top. N. Yeah, Bellow's not doing much. We really want to interact with something, but it's difficult. So, let's get an Echos of Eternity. We can only hope that our late game is better.

[19:03] Or did I play the wrong land? Colorless. Oh, we need to play a different land. My apologies. Castic warfront. Yes. So, we can make three colorless, three diamond. Let's do Pass the turn. Untap. Draw. We know we have a problem with flubs. But can we do anything about it? We can mill. We can mill and try to steal something. We can bounce some. Can this bounce? Oh, this can bounce the sorcerers class. Okay, we're holding this up then. Okay, so this is our plan. Our plan is to Alvara If we don't need to, we'll factor fiction. Not the again, not the best play, but can we afford to play our commander and hold on?

[19:48] Commander cost four. This will cost three. No, not Okay, we are going to just we play the land. We'll just pass. Okay, Kalia, we untap with black market connections. I think we pay everything, do we? Yeah, we want to board. We want to board. So, actually, do we need card draw? Maybe not because we're probably playing this, are we? Or let's just draw. 1 2 3 4 5 six. We do have life. So, I don't have a changeling token. This will do. Um, whatever this is. And treasure. Now, we draw two, which are two lands. This works really well with Amaria Sheper, but we don't have a graveyard right now.

[20:32] Do we drop our Jazella out there? No, I don't think so. We We are also dying to flops at this point. There's there are no artifacts on the board for us to use our Cavern Horde Dragon. So, do we Calia or do we do we speed demon again? Tempted to say speed demon just to draw more is with Oh, maybe farewell. Actually, sorry, I forgot about farewell. I think this is the time to farewell. Yeah, graveyards, enchantments, okay. Small misplay. Shouldn't have made this, but pretty sure it's correct to So, let's do that.

[21:13] Let's do enchantments. Do we do great? Yes, we do. And wipe everything. Any responses? Doesn't seem like there will be any responses from anyone. Exile. Uh, yes. Graveyard Flops is pretty sad about this. Yeah, but there's not much we can do. Exile. Exile. Command zone. Exile. Exile. Commander attacks. Uh, should be one, right? One extra. Bellow. Just can't stick anything. Yeah, the master is very happy about this. And that's our turn. We'll have to discard.

[21:53] Let's keep winding canyons. Uh oh. Let's exile the graveyards first before we forget. Yep. Okay, now we discard. I think maybe we want to keep this in a marsh flats just to Yeah, just to get value. So, next turn we can we can justella or cow horde dragon. Yeah. So, we discard. Let's discard the and maybe Sarah's Emissary cuz that's kind of, you know, you can do some instant speed tricks with that. And one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. So, we need to discard one more. Yeah, winding cannons can go for for for now.

[22:35] We don't want to keep two lands, especially when there's also a Velica Stone Forge. I think that's reasonable. Pass. All right, flops. We untap with a rapid hybridization in hand. There are no targets though, so it's a bit tricky. Unhapp draw. Hall breach does have So the play is this is tricky. This is tricky. Um I think we flip top. That's what we do. And then we play flubs. Then we can continue the chain. Then we discard the rapid right to uh to breach. That's the plan. Okay. So we s top just to see. Maybe should have done it before, but same top.

[23:16] Okay, got Oh, Yuru. Yur is not bad. Yuth and gutter snipe. So, we want Yuruth, I think. Yeah. Okay, let's do that. Let's do that. So, a flip top into. And then we play flops. One, two, three, four, five. So, this will set us up pretty well for next turn, I'd say. Then we uh have to pay a life and we discard rap hybrid hybridization and we hall breach to blow up just one artifact.

[24:01] So, let's do the metal rock for Kalia. Okay, this happens. And now we get to draw. We get to exile the top two cards. Then we can play those cards. So we exile the top two cards here. And we'll play a top. Yes. Play a top. Then we exile. Oh, we pay mana for the top. And we exile two more cards. Fortunately, no land. We do need some lands here. So, let's pay one life to blow up uh vendor blast the other man rock for Kalia cuz Kalia is definitely Okay, then we draw two more.

[24:42] Yes. Yeah, we might not get the gutter snip this turn. Oh, we might. We might. Uh, let's play a breeding pool untapped. Oh, life is life is getting low. Two rift. Might have to waste that. play our uh second land for the turn. Get two Yeah, I think we drop gutter snipe and pass the turn. Yeah, is that correct? Yeah, let's drop gutter snipe. Pay two life. Exile top two cards. None of these are relevant. So, everything else is exiled. Yeah, there's no board. So, we just set up what we can.

[25:23] Play our two lands a turn and hope for the best. Pass bellow. Let's keep trying. Bellowh land. Okay, almost do again. That's good. So, we mirror works. One, two, three, four, five. And play overflowing chalice. Or we do it the other way around. Chalice. It doesn't matter too much. We don't have much to do. Oh, actually, we do. We do. Cuz if we can hold two mana, we can cycle the shelter thicket. So, let's play that better. Let's play a chalice with one counter. Then, we tap it. One, two, three, four. Do I? No, like this, right? Tap it for Hold up. Chalice. Oh, the math was off.

[26:03] So, we still get just to get to keep one mana. Um, yeah, we pass with one mana up. Now, at the end of turn, this is what we've been waiting for. Let's fact or fiction targeting. Might as well target. Doesn't matter. It'll be me. It will be me to split. So, we've got cultivate. got reenact the crime a land and ramp. Honestly, I'm tempted to just do this, you know, ramp and gas. And this card is actually very good when combined with any mill, but is that giving them too much? No, I think it's fine. I think it's fine. And uh for the master, which one do I pick? I think I'll pick It's tempting to just take this, but then that's like saying good split.

[26:47] You never want to approve of their split. Make them feel good about themselves. even though it's just me. So, uh let's at least we can cycle, right? Let's take this. So, then we can cycle into something good, right? So, yeah, to prove ourselves, right? So, cycle migration path. Draw a card. See, see what I was saying. So, pull pro. Uh there's no there is a graveyard. There is a graveyard. Maybe we are on to something on top. H. So we draw first and the consumer aberration. Wow. Okay. Then we mill two from rad. We got a land at a nonland. So we lose one rat, lose one life.

[27:28] All right. We are a bit short on mana. And with this board, I do think we have some time. We don't really have to answer anything anymore. Gutter knight is strong, but it's not like I don't think it's going to kill us this turn, right? We have to do something. What's the something we do, though? Do we primordial? Well, we primordial. There's only what's in Cali's grave, which is not that much. Maybe we do. Maybe we do. But I think this game is kind of nearing its end, even though like totals are not the lowest. So, let's let's put some threat onto the board. Yeah. And play our land. I think I think that's So, let's drop the One, two, three, four.

[28:13] Five, six, seven. Let's bring up from Cali's grave. Calvin Horde Dragon. Is that correct? Or do we take Sarah's emissary? I think Sarah's Emissary and give ourselves protection from creatures so that we can't be touched by Gutter Snipe. Yeah, we're 25 lives. Yeah. So, we are kind of protected while Fluffs guns everything else down. Does Fluffs have anything in the graveyard? No creature. Although this is kind of susceptible to removal, but I think protection from creatures also gives us protection from Kalia and from Bellow. So, it's not the worst play. We also kind of have some threats on the board rather than just doing nothing.

[28:56] Yeah, our mill plan is not working well right now. And we're supposed to mill and then I mean to be fair, we we did bring something back. But yeah, let's do this pass. Kya on Okay, this our plan didn't go well because yeah, we clearly was hoping to do this, but now we don't have the mana thanks to flubs. I think we just play our land, play Kalia, and pass. Where's our Calia? It's in our hand. It's in our hand. Oh, did I forget to discard for I did. So, let's Sorry. Go to discard for um for the master. So, let's discard Ram spell land and two lands.

[29:37] Sure. And we are at seven cards. Okay, now Kalia. So we Calia and What else can we do? It's not much. Calia and we play the Valakut Stone Yeah. And pass the turn. Unfortunate, but that's what we can do. So next turn at least we can drop this with Kalia hopefully. Okay, fluffs untapped with everything. This will be a good turn especially if we can deal with the Amaria shepherd.

[30:17] Let's see. Draw for turn. Oh, actually instead of drawing, we would exile these two. This is great because we can copy the gutter snipe. There's no point playing abundance because we have a roof. So let's drop the uh let's play this as another gutter snipe. And abundance is in exile. Let's keep our pile here. Uh, just keep it here, I guess. Oops. O. All right. So, we played this. Pay three mana. Exile. Two more. Okay. We got the creature removal. Let's play a land first. First land of the turn. Draw. Exile top two. Uh, second land of the turn.

[30:57] Exile top All right, let's do it. So, Cyberman conversion. We're going to convert the AIA shepherd. Not shepherd. What's it called? Sarah's emissary. Boom. Yep. This happens unfortunately. And uh it will deal four damage. Sorry, not master, but everyone else. But starting now, the master will be taking damage. And what can we do damage with? We can do it with Let's flip top to see if we have better options. Flip top. Exile 2 into the royal is nice. So we do that into the Let's bounce the bounce the Calia I guess.

[31:43] Yeah. Everyone take four. Kalia goes back to hand. Meanwhile, we exile two more cards. One of them is top. Let's play the top. And I think we continue to top. Or do we pay three to bounce? Uh, I think top is better. Yeah, it's digging us deeper and it's uh cheaper usually. So, let's flip top again. All the top two cards. None of these are good. So, then we can play the bounce spell. Okay. One, two, three. Let's bounce the the marrow works uh graveyard. Yes, Mars back to hand.

[32:24] Everyone take four. We are at nine life. So we have to be careful like we might have to deal with the primordial next so that we don't take combat damage. yeah. So then we exile two more. Yes. One of them is top. Let's play the top and we will play struggle. Struggle will target the primordial dealing more than 10 damage to it. Struggle happens. Uh okay. First, let's do it in the right order for once. Two cards and trigger primordial dice. Whoops.

[33:06] And uh we got three more mana. And there's no target. There is target for reality shift. Do we use it? I think we have to because we don't get to keep it. So, let's reality shift the the token or the the flipped the flipped um Sarah's adversary. So, this one gets exiled. Uh but first, we have to do the damage. 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 And we exile the top two cards. Okay, this is something we can actually Oh, this is not deeming failure. I was going to say we can cast it, but no, we haven't drawn any cards this turn. So it looks like all these will be ex exiled.

[33:49] There's nothing we can cast from here. There is nothing we can cast from here. Okay, I think we passed the turn and uh yeah, we will win next turn if they don't do anything this point. Bellow is thinking about taking itself apart. Uh what are we doing with Okay, let's play a land. Make some tokens. Mirror works. Ugan. Yeah, maybe just Ugan. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 mana. Let's keep one up for Ugan. Is that eight? Let's make sure. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Yes, Ugan. Ugan is going to minus three. Yeah, minus three.

[34:30] So that we don't get gutter snipe anymore. Yeah. So it's at four. And any responses from anyone? No, it doesn't seem like it. So everything is gone from Flips forward. Now flips costs seven mana. It's been casted twice. Okay, finally we did something. Pass. The master untaps draw and mill one for the red counter. And now Rat is gone. We lose one life. We're at eight life. Whoops. Yeah, that last turn wasn't too clever. And now we I don't think we have a window to ramp, do we? I think we cast the master and hope to hope to cut our losses and get something to save us.

[35:12] Yeah, there's nothing we can get now from Calia's grave. We might or we grasp for something from from Bellow. Yeah, I think we do need to cut cut m cast master because we have nothing else that can steal from graveyards in our hand, which is unfortunate. So, we cast the master for Let's first grasp. So, maybe we can get a mana rockers. Eh, yeah, let's grasp first and see. So, grasp against bellow hopefully. I don't even know what we're hoping for, but something to gain life with. Yeah, Bellow is the deck with artifacts. So, let's mill Billow for eight. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 7 8 Oh, the party tree.

[35:58] Oh, this is close. Do we get the chim or the party tree? Party tree gains life, but chiml is value. Let's think about that. Party tree, we can master. We can cast master. We do get the mana is helpful, but getting free spells is also nice. Now, I think we're at a point where the party tree won't save us, but something random might. Yeah, I'm tempted to go for Chim just for a little bit more spice cuz with our hand right now, we are not doing anything till next turn. And that's spanking on the master sticking. If the master gets removed again by, you know, you mean there's an Ugan, there's flubs, we're done. But this can be anything, right?

[36:39] and also uncounterable, right? Because all the counters lost this game. So, let's do that chim. And uh at the beginning of my end step, I will go to combat. Go to Wait, do we cast or do we just bank on the chim? I don't think we should. I think we should cast the master anyways. I was thinking about holding the vara, but we should be a bit more proactive now with this board. So, yeah, let's do the master. And we r this time. We rad. I don't think we ride ourselves anymore. That's rad. Who? Kalia. Sure. Kalia's dying soon though. Yeah, let's rad Calia. Why not? And now Chim for the miracle discover five.

[37:20] H conduit of worlds. Not good right now, but next turn we can do something. Right. Let's pass our turn. Kalia sad on top with our three speed draw. And then we rat two moat and ruin his ultimatum. Minus two. No more rad. Now what? We can't speed demon. We're at six life. We can play land. We can play kalion. Two, three, four, five, six. We have to play something and then lifelink with it basically is the blind.

[38:00] But we only have six mana. So we can't marry a shepherd. Not even close. We can With this hand, I think it's just Kalias, but Kalia is probably going to get if it doesn't get fluffs, it's going to get Ugan. But there is no other choice. I mean, speed, we'll go to three and Ugan can kill us. So, probably not But then we probably die anyways at six life. At least the speed demon can link some life the turn after. So can Kalia. Yeah, let's let's do Kalia. Have to go big. Two, three, four. Calia and uh yeah, let's play the land. We're not getting the Aaria Shepard greed.

[38:41] So then we pass the turn. Okay, we untap with Flubs uh with nine life and lots of land. So let's draw our card. Although flubs does cost seven, which is Draw a card. Dryad. Let's play flubs. Three, four, five, six. Dryad is very helpful because uh of all the life payment lands we have. Dryad can negate all that. We no longer have to pay life into lands. Dryad sorry, flubs for seven Dryad for three mana. Um yeah, like this.

[39:21] And before we draw, I think we top to hopefully get some Let's see what we can get. Yeah, let's top. Solid. Doesn't win us the game, but can help a little bit. Um, sure. Oh, whoops. Yeah, let's do this this order. Cabin of the dead. So, draw. This will be our second land. Uh, field of the dead, right? When it enters, we make a zombie on top. Okay. Draw. Play another land. That's our third land. Our final land, which makes another zombie. and draw sword tooth.

[40:02] Pay three for the swart tooth. So, we got uh we draw a card first, but we have city's blessing. Yay. And uh we drew the mystical tutor. How can that help us? How can that help us? I guess we tutor for removal. Okay, let's search for So, we've played we have one more land draw. Let's do this. So, first we draw. Oh, we found a removal. Uh, there's also Ugan, which can minus again. Yeah, we couldn't find another damage source, which is unfortunate, but let's see what we have in the deck. Ether Flux is good. Oh, can't search for Okay, let's get Snap because we are short on mana.

[40:46] So, we can uh kind of cast one more spell after that. So, shuffle. This is on top. And we wild magic surge. We're going to surge the um Ugan. Yes, sir. Ugan automatic surge. Ugan destroyed. Uh but we give him another permanent another planes walker which probably is K or Ugan. Oh, we know that it's Ugan. Yeah, because there's no K in there. Although Ugan can't really wipe. It can kill fluffs. But yeah, I mean there is a weaker Ugan in there. So, okay, let's do let's try it. Let's try it because we can't leave this Ugan on the field. So, destroy and flip until we get So, let's do this fast. Oh, they got the good Ugan.

[41:29] And that comes with seven loyalty counters. We We might have messed up there. Um, we'll see. Snap. Snap the the master or the Kalia. I think it's still the Kalia. The master can't kill us immediately. Kalia can't. So, let's snap the Kalia. Draw a card. Kalia goes back to hand. Come on. Two lands. Let's play a land. This our third land of the turn actually. Is it? I think so. Yeah. Third land of the turn. Uh, draw a card. Make a zombie. Okay, we are a bit stuck.

[42:10] Let's sense it. Let's spin senses top. One, two, three. Yeah, this. Oh, pick your poison. Do we use it now? I don't think so. I mean, we can make uh we can do artifact. Doesn't do much. We can Yeah, I think we hold up resculpt. That's the correct play. We hold up resculpt. So, we keep this on top and hope for the best. I mean, we have city's blessing. What can go wrong? What can go wrong? Okay, pass the turn. On top with Ugan. Thank you, Flops, for the gift. We might actually be able to do something on top. Draw. So we add mana, play something, play another thing, and play bellow. How much mana do we have? We have 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 mana.

[42:54] We are one short, but we haven't played a land yet. So we have exactly uh No, we don't. Mirror works banner. I think we should be playing Bellow at this point. Or do we just set up for next turn and hold up air with Karat? We're at 17 life. So if again let's make sure we have so 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 mana. So we can cast these two and copy it. But but then we are we don't have protection. So maybe we just play both and keep protection up. Yeah, I think that's the correct play. Do we need to deal with this side? We we can't cuz we're Yeah, we're isoling things.

[43:35] Okay. Okay, we're fine. We're fine. So add mana plus zero and uh keep these two and tap all these out. That would be 10 mana. We play uh Mirror Works and a Kinchin. Uh first of all, Mirror Works will trigger Ugan on this board. I'm thinking it's Flubs. Yeah, I think it's Flubs. So, let's do that. Flubs is now casting nine mana. And with our next spell, we will exile the master, right? Or is it the conduit? Let's see what they have in the graveyard. The primordial, I believe. G Primordial. Primordial can get something from Kalia which is annoying but oh yeah I think we might have to do the conduit.

[44:18] Do we kill the master or the conduit? I'm leaning towards the conduit. Uh sorry the master. The master because primordial I mean they can get the dragon from Kali. Let's see. They can get the Yeah, the dragon. That's it right. And the dragon sure it hits Ugan or hits us. They make some treasures. It's not terrifying. But with the master they can mill something and we don't know what they can mill from Kalia for example. And yeah so I think we deal with the master. So, let's exile the master goes to the command zone oh, I mean with our banner, sorry, we cast the banner as on the master and we choose elementals and we've passed the turn on top Looks like we don't have a lot of choice here.

[45:09] We got all these mail cards. Alt of dementia, consuming aberation. Oh, consuming aberration with altar of dementia. That is a thing. The graveyards are not huge though, so I don't think we're killing anyone with a mill except for maybe flips. Um, do we uh do we primordial into dragon? I think we do cuz the dragon can hit. So, we're at 1, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight mana. Yeah, I think the last line is Oh, we can't cast any more spells after that, right? Uh, there's only one. Oh, so then we can't even chim. Oh, no. The conduit doesn't work well. But instead, maybe we don't. Did we play this land this turn? I don't remember. Oh well. Uh so eight consuming aberration into alternia.

[45:52] And we can just threat to kill someone. Yeah. Okay. Consuming aberration. Alternia. And when we do that, everyone mills until they get a land, including not including ourselves, every opponent. So Kalia mill. No, we got the land. plus mill. We got four and uh bellow mill. Yep. Five cards. Okay. Okay. Now we trigger the chimu.

[46:33] Chim chim chim. Nope. Discover five, right? Five. Yes. Ah, wrap. Okay. Okay, happens. The rest go on the bottom, I'm guessing. And uh before we do that, everyone mills again. A mill. That's not a land. Three cards. Flops mill. Not a land. That's a land. Three cards. And bellow. One, two, four cards. Stomping ground. And we search for a land. this so we can hold up cycling fracture sanity doesn't do much but something it's something we might have to do it and uh that's our turn so at actually at this point we can use altar to kill I'm tempted to do it to it won't be oh actually we have a really good board yes this was all part of the plan but um because what happens is Kalia probably can't kill

[47:37] But flubs can. But the problems is flubs needs to draw cards to keep the chain going. And we can just in response to any draw and mill the deck. And if flubs doesn't do anything, we can just mill bellow. Do we have enough? I think we might. Uh we we have to count. Let's do a quick count. Okay, we're back from the count. There are 44 cards among all our opponent's graveyards and there are 65 cards in Bellow's deck. So, if we use the fractured sanity, we can go up to um 44 + 12, right?

[48:19] We can go to 56, which is about 10 cards short. So, no, we cannot kill Bellow. But but if you know no one does anything, we can mill we can mill bellow down to 10 cards and after that after that they're dead, right? They're close to dead at least from the fractured So we have a plan. We have a plan. All right, let's pass the turn. Kalia untaps. Let's uh crack this fetch might as well. Or not yet. Not yet. Maybe we still have a chance of shepherd. We can, you know, have a soaring top deck. This is where we cry a little bit.

[49:00] Hoarding brood lord tutor for something. Not enough mana. Speed demon. We have six life. Jala. Jella. Oh boy. Boy. I think maybe just to, you know, in case flubs has those one damage pingers and we can just not take damage. Yeah, it's not looking good for us. Um, is there a way to, you know, try to play to win rather than not lose? I think, honestly, just sella plus full throttle if it lives is the plan. We can kill two Yeah, I might as well try it. So, we have to crack our fetch and uh use our treasure and just sell out. Yeah, there's honestly not much else we can do here.

[49:41] So, let's get a Pass the turn. flops. We should be winning here. But but yeah, it's scary the consuming operation. We do see the threat of consuming operation. So we flops untapped, right? And we are going to draw. But actually, does the master the master has to think, do we allow flops to draw here? Because flops does have here you see um eight damage on board. I mean with this uh yeah so eight master the master will die if flops attacks. So also Flubs does have this card in the graveyard survive which shuffles all graveyards into library.

[50:25] But the problem is if we kill Flubs, if the master kills it just dies to Bellow, right? So we have a kind of a standoff situation here. So what we are hoping for is for Flubs to do things and uh deal with at least the Ugan, maybe an artifact. And we are willing to lose our stuff even if that means Yeah, because we are guaranteed to lose if we kill Flubs right now. So we just don't do anything. Yeah, I don't think I don't think the master will respond to anything flips does right now. Now that we re re-evaluate the situation right now, Bellows is the problem. Yeah, unless Phubs is kind of pinging us to death, we're not going to kill Flops.

[51:07] Fwell on top and draw a beast within. we have two cards in hand. So what we will do is I don't think we even use the beast within do we? Yeah. Let's just um do the storm. Uh maybe we want the beast. No storm clan artist. One, two, three, four. Oh, also I forgot again that flops is not on the field. So can we afford to play flips? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. I think we have to. I mean, this is a flop deck, right? We We What are we going to do? Let's see what's in graveyard that we can do. There's nothing. There is nothing. We can zombie people, but yeah, that's not going to kill.

[51:50] We can kill Ugan. Okay, I think we combat into Ugan first. So, let's attack with our sword to this because it's not blocking. Seven damage to Ugan and these can block. Yes, we're going to we're going to cast flubs. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Sorry. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Holy crap, it's expensive. Okay, then we beast within something. Do we try? I guess we can't really touch the master cuz we will literally die if we do.

[52:33] So, we beast within the Jella. Yeah, let's beast within the Jella because we have more artifact removal than creature removals. So, let's piece within the Jella. Uh, so what we do is we draw a card and we Sorry, this treasure shouldn't be there. Let's create a treasure token. Uh, we draw a land. The cell is gone. It's replaced by a beast token. And we play a land. Our first land of the turn. Draw a card. Make a zombie. We drew another land. But this is also a removal. What do we remove? Nothing. Let's play our second land. Draw a card. Make a zombie. Now we drew a ballad get sanctuary.

[53:16] That is interesting. We can definitely play it. But um where do we what do we get? Let's see. We have to deal with we have to deal with see but the thing is we can't really deal with bellow too much. If we do then we become the only threat and uh yeah we'll die to the master. So let's see beast within exploration pick your poison. Is there something that can allow us to respond to things? Cyberman conversion. Vendle blast. Maybe we overload Do we have enough mana?

[53:58] One, two. Sorry, this is not on two. One, two, three, four. One, two, three. We do have enough mana to overload vendast. Uh, if we do that, will the master allow us? I think they will. I think they will because again, we are dead anyways. Like we're at the mercy of the master. But if we overand blast. Yeah. Again, we know that if the master mills us, they will die to Bellow. So, let's do that. Okay. Valad san Sanctuary. And we get one more treasure for casting. And we draw a card for casting. We find a cursed idol. We drew this. But we're going to target Meadow Blast. We didn't pay the mana.

[54:39] My apologies. We pay the mana for the balag. And we blasted Metal Blast. Discarding you find a curse title. Now let's see responses. Bellow has a response called heroic So we are going to do just that. Yeah, bellow shines for once. Meanwhile, the master we're losing our our entire board except for consuming operation. Are we going to allow that? At this point, Flubs is kind of winning. But again, Bellow just kept its board. So I don't think we kill flops even though ah it's really tempting.

[55:21] Yeah, I think we have to just let it happen and keep the keep the aberration. Okay, so this happens for the last turn. J goes in here. Everything else goes in graveyard. Meanwhile, Kalia doesn't care. What can Kalia do? Think our time's over for Kalia. And u yeah, that's the turn for flops. Now Bellow on taps. This is going to be hopefully a decent turn for us. Oops. On top drawu is useful. I think we cycle this just to hope to get Hold on. Are these elementals? Nope. They're spirits. So, we cycle our shter thicket.

[56:01] Or do we just ah wait, hold on. Maybe we just attack. Maybe we just attack. Who do we attack into? We attack into Kalia. Kalia has to block. We can kill Calia. Or we can try to kill master. But then there's flubs. If we kill master, what are we going to do about flubs? It's a tricky situation here. So flubs is winning now. There's no win on board for flubs, right? But is not doing anything. And master can do something. So we try to kill master. we need to draw some cards, too.

[56:41] We're at 17 life. If we fail to kill master, it's over kind of. Yeah, let's let's hope to drop something else. Let's see if we cycle into a four mana artifact. We drop it. We copy it. We don't have No, no, no, no. Let's just drop our bellow. Okay, bellow. A one, two, hold on. One, two, three for Then we attack. We attack for four and four. Yes. And we're attacking into Calia. We're killing Calia.

[57:22] Not sure that's a good idea. We need to draw two cards. That's the thing. And we're not getting through flops or I mean the master we can get through with one. Okay, let's let's kill Calia. Let's kill Cal. We want to draw two cards. It will cost us another three mana leaving us with four more. But yeah. Yeah, we need to develop our board otherwise we just can't win. So, we need to we need to make something happen. Uh, one, two, three to give this trample or sorry, we can't do that just yet. We have to attack first. Attack Kalia. Kalia blocks one of them with a beast and we give the blocked artifact trample. This will deal five damage to Kalia.

[58:04] So, that's game over for Kalia. believe it is. Yeah, to be fair, the game was long over for Cali. Just couldn't recover despite his efforts. So, we're going to draw two cards. We drew a board wipe and a land. Not what we want. Uh we we'll play the land. We will cycle shelter thicket just in case we get Let's cycle it because we can still use. Oh, hold up. Hold up. Never mind. Never mind. We don't cycle because we also have so can then which can make blockers. That's very important, right? yeah, because with four mana we can use both which is you know it's it's a response.

[58:48] It's a okay let's do that instead. Pass. Now the master at the end of turn we're going to cycle the fractured sanity. Cycle draw a card. Each opponent mills Flops knows four. We on top draw island. Play the island. This is tough. This is tough. We don't have any answers. Do we have anything in grave? I don't believe so. All we have is a consuming aberration and eight So, and also our armory of our Calalia is gone.

[59:30] We no longer can reanimate something big. I mean, these two are useless when it comes to graveyards. So, we have to go with a mill plan. Yeah, I think we can mill them out. Or do we cut our losses twice? Casualty, too. We don't have casualty. Okay, I think our best bet here is to mail half the library for a bellow and then cast two more spells. Use imagining cacophony and then tangle thrren to hopefully mill them both out. That is our one chance because on board we have nothing. So let's do that. Cut your losses targeting bellow. One, two, three, four, five, six.

[1:00:10] One, two, three. So until we get a land. Now we are kind of regretting not using the graveyard shuffle card. We thought the board was a bigger threat, but it was because of what the master had. But maybe the master would have allowed us to shuffle. H maybe not. It's hard to It's hard to tell. Okay, so we mil a bunch and hello. We mill this is to the consumer operation. Okay, we mill. And now we count our library and mill half. Okay, so it turns out there are 58 cards. So we mill 29. And now the master, we are going to cast a cut your losses.

[1:00:51] Sorry, the other card. We're going to cast a maddening cacophony. Everyone mills eight. Each opponent mills eight. But first we mill until we get a land. Okay. Yeah, I think it's over for flubs bellow and bellow mills eight. Sorry. Mills till we get a land. Oh, that's a land. Did I? Okay. Till we get a land. And then we mill eight. Is there anything we can do? I don't think so. We are milled to death. Flubs.

[1:01:32] Yeah, there's nothing we can do from the graveyard. We We will see. We will see, but probably not. Meanwhile, Milo will mill until it gets a land. Sorry. Mil uh mill eight. I mean, not quite. Not quite. Um so then the master casts one more spell in Tangle Fledron. Also a blocker. No, it's not over. So, Bellow, we will mill until we get a land. One, two. Okay, so how many cards left? So, Bellow has 14 cards left and one turn to kill the master. Now, as the master, do we attack Bellow? If we attack, it's going to have to block with Bellow, but then it can just recast and we lose a blocker.

[1:02:17] They pay five for Bellow and then attack us with No. So we are betting on that they don't have a another big artifact in hand which I think is not unsafe to bet. I mean they didn't cast anything right. So yeah I think we go for it. I think we go for it. Okay so consuming operation attacks bellow and bellow has been waiting for this moment. It's going to soen discard it with channel using three mana like this and create two colorless spirit tokens. Here you go. And we are going to block with one of them. The master is very sad about this.

[1:02:58] Now sure one spirit dice and do we also use su for something? I don't think yeah I don't think there's any point. So yeah, combat is finished. The master is not dead just yet because we have one blocker against two. Uh, actually, no, we're dead. We're dead. Whoops. Okay. Okay. Well, let's see what flops can do. Probably not much on tap. draws and dice. Okay, flops is dead and all that's left is city's blessing and speed on Kalia's side. Uh yeah, we are very happy to untap.

[1:03:44] And let's draw a card from our deck is a Nautiloid ship. Yeah, let's play it. Let's play it and let's go in and extend the head. Good game. Good game. Good games. Good games. Good games. Good games. Bellow comes out with a victory somehow after doing nothing.

[1:04:28] So, you see how well I'm simulating your average pod. The deck that did nothing ends up taking over the game. Flops could have played better with the creatures, especially with the Jella on board. I think we were just too scared of Calia there. But today, rather than analyzing the game, I want to focus more a bit on the video format itself. I'm looking to make this into a series potentially, but there are some kinks I need to work out. And this is where you come in. If you've stuck around till now, clearly there's something you like here, and I love your suggestions. Let's do a giveaway. And yeah, let's do a giveaway. And again, I'm only promoting it here, nowhere else. Just leave a comment. How can I improve this series? What are some advantages you find compared to other gameplay series? And are there any major problems I should address?

[1:05:09] Let's see. I'll pick a comment or two and give away let's say $50. I guess I I again I want to find a better way to do giveaways, but for now it's the best I can do cuz PayPal, everyone has PayPal almost and yeah, let's do that. So from my perspective, this series is interesting to make because we can share more of the decision-m whether is right or wrong and our thought thought process, right? and choosing which cards to play and threat assessment and all that. I'm also playing with nearperfect knowledge of the decks. While I also do know all the cards in hand, but I find that I'm still able to simulate how I would play without that knowledge. It's not perfect, but close enough to how you play in a normal game with friends.

[1:05:49] And I also enjoy not having any politics involved. It's all just the game itself. But yeah, that's all for today. Thank you for staying till the end.
