# Tam is WHOLESALING Planeswalker Emblems
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/5DNffu4TjTg
date: 2026-09-21 | views: 30,618 | likes: 385 | comments: 153 | length: 10:36 | words: 2,411 | wpm: 227.6
tags: Tam, Reality Fracture, MTG, EDH, Commander, Magic the Gathering, Planeswalkers, Superfriends, Jace, Chandra

[0:00] Hello everyone, how are you? This is Jyn with Next Level Commander and we are not even done with these mystery boosters yet, but ah reality fracture is already out and these are delicious. Holy crap. I I'm Yeah, I've got months of content lined up. But but the first legend we are looking at here is actually Tam the possibility, which is interesting because the generic fivecolor commander is usually the last thing I look at when going through a set. And also super friends, that's something I got bored of 10 years ago. So why Tam isn't her glorious hair? Yeah, it's pretty enticing. Oh, imagine the possibil. Oh, she's a Gorgon, isn't she? Ah, crap. But seriously though, five color planes walkers in 2026 is got to be something special.

[0:41] And honestly, I think it is cuz Tam enables a kind of deck that I I want to call aggro Planaineswalkers. No, we're not beating people up with Gideonss, but what we're doing here is we are trying to amass a bunch of emblems as fast as we can. Some pretty useless, but it's okay. We're doing quantity over quality here. And I'm sure you've been advised to never bank on a planaineswalker ultimating. But here we are turning that on its head and we are playing some planaineswalkers that are otherwise pretty useless. We are just here for the alt like baseret for example. We don't need pump. We're not attacking with anything until that ultimate goes off of course. So yeah, normally super friends decks are seen as oppressive, kind of boring to play against. It's almost like a combo deck where you, you know, try to get one of those alts off and the game's over.

[1:22] We're trying not to do that. But we're taking these smaller, less dominant emblem effects and kind of using them as permanent buffs. And trust me, you will need these buffs as you get later into the game with these, you know, lower quality individual cards. So, the promise has been made and you are interested. How do we go about this? Once again, how do I deliver on the clickbaity thumbnail? Well, well, I did achieve this once in the early testing days with the help of a birds of paradise. So we had Tam on turn two and we dropped two planes walkers on turn three and activated TM and ultimated both planaineswalkers on turn four. Now the alts are pretty mediocre especially Rowan salt. I used it I think once in the entire game but that was cool. It felt like I was doing something broken but it wasn't too oppressive.

[2:04] I mean I didn't win that game so I wanted to do it again and I realized the key to doing that is being one turn faster with these turn one manadors. So, we are playing every single one mana rem option that is available including birds, including elves, whatever, even wild growth. And the next part of our plan is the three mana planaineswalkers. And we are not picky. A lot of these planes walkers just don't see play at all. But why not? We can play them. Yeah, this alt seems decent, but there are a few that are actually excellent. The new blue chandra, for example, she does a lot of things. The survey is very likely to draw as a card and that ramp ability is just incredible. We can't use it to activate temp, but being able to drop Shandra and then a four drop planes walker on turn three is yeah is amazing.

[2:44] I've done it once and I look forward to the next time so much. And the alt is also really good. Yeah, this is the complete package. Another one that is really similar is Ren and the Realmreaker. Every single ability here is relevant. The plus one, the static, and the ultimate especially. Yeah, having one of these in the opening hand and we are about to have an excellent game. Also, Rowan, I know I made fun of her earlier, but her alt happens really easily. And also when we need the backside is also pretty good, especially the draw two option. There are also a few planes walkers here that don't make emblems, but their ultimates are interesting. Yeah, they're definitely useful. And for example, an early ashok can cause a lot of chaos. But my favorite one though is definitely a Johnny Outland Chaperel. And the first two abilities are not terrible, but this ultimate, this ultimate is why I play this game, man.

[3:27] And it's so perfect for this deck. I haven't done it yet, but you know, I'll be pushing for it every game I play. Okay, so aside from these, we have a few honorary three drops. These are the ones that cost a little bit extra, but they ramp us also. So, we can still carry out our turn one, turn two, turn three, turn four curve without skipping a beat. The first one is Narset of the Ancient Way. Solid abilities ramps us and also a really fair emblem, just perfect for this deck. Shandra, Torch of Defiance. The double red can be pretty awkward, but even if it doesn't ramp us this turn, it's going to help a lot in the next turn. Defairy, who slows the sunset, untaps a manador, and untaps a land. Yeah, with Defairy we can play two four drops on turn three. But the ferryy isn't even the best one. That spot goes to Dada. This card is so pushed.

[4:08] I even suspect it being a design mistake. Pay four, play Dada, and get four treasures back. Yeah, and that's the floor. You can just also dig for legendary planaineswalkers if you want to. Yeah, this is probably the single best card in the deck. Okay, and there you have it. This is the core of the deck. Roughly 20 or so cards, and the goal is to ultimate these planes walkers as soon as we can, but we're also leaving some room for the fun stuff. and also backup plants. Let's start with the fun stuff. But yeah, the fun stuff in a planainwalker deck is just more planaineswalkers. But we get to choose which ones we like at least. For example, commander Guff. I've always wanted to play this card and it's perfect here. Also, Tofairy, Master of Time. Such a fun and unique planer design. One of the few that is made for multiplayer.

[4:48] And also the big Tfairy. Yeah, untapping four lands is huge here. I do have to be careful though. I think I have four Tfaries in the deck. And remember, Tam cares about unique planaineswalker types. So, we might have to make some adjustments if that becomes a problem. Also, the new Ajani. It is not perfect for this deck, but it's got decent synergy. Most of the abilities are relevant. So, yeah, seems fun. And also, the new Jace cuz yeah, this card is ridiculous in EDH. I don't know why they don't make more multiplayer oriented planes walkers. They do it for every other card type. So, this seems like a decent start, but then they're going to take it too far and yeah, we just we can't have good things. So, well, we'll see. So, aside from the ramp options, we also do need some other support for our game plan. The biggest one, of course, is backup and protection for our commander.

[5:29] I'm playing all these free ones because of how tight our manner curve is. But if the TAM plan falls apart, we do have a lot of other ways to surprise alt our planes walker. Because again, if you played or played against super friends, you will know the best way to al planes walkers is to do it when people don't expect you to. It could be all of a sudden proliferating a bunch onto the walkers. It could be when they should be dying to combat, you face them out and they come back with an extra counter to alt. Having an extra activation is definitely good. And of course, doubling season. Oh, and also my favorite extra turn spell, savor the moment. This card is broken in a planaineswalker deck. It's it's just explore for one extra mana, but you get one more activation on everything. Dream tide will is also cool. This one is telegraphed, but it makes things super awkward for your opponents. They have to kill the whale or they have to decide between enabling you or limiting their spells.

[6:14] It's also just a massive body. It's another sweet design I've always wanted to play with. And just a few other pieces of utility. Oath of Nissa is amazing. I wish I could tutor for it every game. We do have problem manifing. We'll talk about this later. And also Gias Phoenix. This card is not necessary in the deck, but it's such great value. We're often casting multiple planes walkers a turn. And it can just copy our alt, right? If we make an emblem, now we make two. And board wipes. We do have decent spot removals from our planes walkers. So, we are focusing our removal cards on board wipes. Of course, we also have a few of these walkers, but in a plan walker deck, yes, we need to destroy all creatures. We don't want to be too oppressive with it, but without board wipes, we are going to lose our planaineswalkers every turn basically.

[6:55] So, we need to kill creatures and we're playing with the most efficient creature removals because our mana is pretty tight. We're not playing the big ram spells like a lot of the other planes walker decks do. Okay, now we talk about mana. This is the most difficult part of the deck to be honest because our planaineswalkers are actually pretty color inensive and we need to make woog by turn four. So, pretty much every single land is dedicated to color fixing. They're loading up on the fetches, shocks, duels, maybe even. Is it possible to build this with a budget mana base? Not the current list. The current list is pretty greedy. And even with the current setup, I sometimes struggle with getting the right mana always. So with different kinds of lands, you will be one turn slower, which I guess isn't the end of the world, but the 1 2 3 4 curve is kind of why I built this deck.

[7:36] Another option is to focus your deck into three colors. I guess blue, green, white, bent would be the right choice here, and splash red and black just for Tam's activation. I haven't explored it too much, but at the end of the day, this probably won't be a budget list with cards like doubling season and the planainesw walkers are not always cheap. The deck is designed to be pretty explosive. Yeah, we do have to mulligan a bit to get the right hand and because of this, I think it's good to play somewhere between 38 to 40 lands. The manifixing alone makes this deck not the most beginner friendly. On turn one, you have to map out your next three turns at least and play your lands and fetch for lands accordingly. But if things go according to plan, this deck is pretty resilient. I mean the the emblems are not removable. They stick with you for the entire game.

[8:17] So basically you're building up these epic like resources that just they will follow you around and you will constantly have them as you play the game. And that's such a unique thing to have and because of that I think the deck is moderately resilient. Now the late game won't be amazing cuz your planes walkers are are mediocre. Most of them are pretty mediocre but yeah things eventually kind of balance out. It's it's a fun deck to play but it's probably not the most powerful. So again, the budget is very high and I can't say I've tested this list extensively. I've done a few rounds online. It's been great. But yeah, make sure you proxy it. Play this online. Test it first before committing to buying this deck. And I do have one game changer in here. It's not necessary, but I feel like this deck is bracket three.

[8:58] Anyways, if you want some other game changers like Tutors would be great, Jessica's Will is great. Tefarious Protection, why not? Yeah, there are some decent options out there. Okay, and there you have it. Now, let's go on to our giveaway. Yes, it's still happening. If you want to be involved, just be subscribed and make a comment. Comment about anything. But if you want to have one extra chance, you can comment a suggestion for this deck. And if you don't want to wait or rely on Chance, you can always head to Kakapo TCG's website. They are my generous sponsor and they have sweet products. And for anyone buying, you can use my discount code levels for 5% off all caps. And now for the winner of my which video? The Elda video. Yes, we have Red Fox.

[9:39] Yeah, yeah, commenting suggesting City of Death. I didn't end up taking the suggestion. It's a cool card, but it's it feels a bit wind and it's slow, so I And again, deck slot is limited, but doesn't matter cuz he won the giveaway anyways for commenting. And for the accepted wreck, we have Lilith, sorry, Lilith the Catmoth. Yes, for suggesting Wall of Roots. Now, that's a great suggestion. This card is is nuts in in Elder. I just missed it completely. So yeah, please add my contact info or leave a comment and we will arrange the giveaway things and yeah, we have a lot of new commanders coming out and yeah, I'm looking to build at least four or five from reality fracture along with the unfinished business from mystery boosters.

[10:23] So if you like this stuff, please subscribe and stay tuned. It's really really helpful to the channel. Actually, if you're watching to this point, that's already you've done so much for me. Thank you so much. Thank you. And yeah, I will see you in the
