# I Built the Angeriest EDH Deck
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/5ySc6m9DvTQ
date: 2026-06-10 | views: 9,616 | likes: 280 | comments: 40 | length: 8:06 | words: 1,817 | wpm: 224.9
tags: EDH, Commander, MTG, Deck Tech, Deck, Marvel Super Heroes, Ares, Marvel

[0:00] He raged at the world, at his family, at his life, but mostly he just raged. Love of spirit, anger is suffering. When you can't act upon it, anger management, emotional maturity, all that garbage is all prison. Imagine being this goblin, angry and free. I mean, you're pretty useless, but you also have haste, so you're not going to not attack. Do now and worry later. Now, imagine finding a group of friends bonded by anger issues going in together. Together, you can do anything and everything, but just once. But then, imagine impressing a Greek god with your display of passion, and now you and your buddies get to do it over and over again, every day, Edge of Tomorrow style.

[0:40] And now, imagine your spectacle attracts crowds, some setting you up with fire arrows, some looking to profit off the casualties, and some who just enjoy watching. And all of a sudden, you go from a meme to winning games of EDH. Imagine. If this sounds like a life you would like to live, we can be friends. This is Jin with Next Level Commander, and I'm angry about a lot of things. And today's deck is an outlet. Ares, God of War. Whenever an attacker dies, it comes back. So, instead of getting punished for a crappy attack, we get rewarded. So, we just need to gather a few idiots, okay, like 20, and send them in over and over and over again until we win. Okay, sounds pretty stupid. But what if we recruit some helpers?

[1:21] Then things get more interesting. Okay, let's get to that in a bit, but let's introduce the bros, starting with the ones that do nothing but attack. These ones are all goblins. This isn't exactly a goblin deck, but we've got some synergies. So, 13 goblins. Now, we do have a few that aren't goblins, but they have to pull their weight. Rograkh, for example, I heard is decent, barely makes the cut. Rabbit Battery is good because with it, our bigger boys get to attack immediately as well. Bolt Courier is probably not going to come to this, but the exile can be helpful when we are desperate for cards, and when we are not, a few wasted exiles is not a big deal. Then we have Clockwork Percussionist and Heralded Street Guard. These two all leave something behind after dying and when we do it over and over again, it's pretty good value.

[2:03] And that's it for the idiots. We are moving our way up the IQ ladder. Sack outlets because at first our opponents may block, but then they will catch on pretty quickly and figure out that you actually want the creatures back in your hand. So, they take the damage. Now, if your group is dumb, you can skip this part, but if not, we need them sack outlets. The ones that fit this deck best are the one drop ones like Carrion Feeder, Viscera Seer, Skirk Prospector and Mak Raider. Now, these ones do double duty and unlike the big ones with self-respect, these ones can sack themselves. And moving on to the more expensive ones with better value, we've got Umbral Mantle Seer, Viscera Seer, Goblin Bombardment, Pawn of Ulamog, and of course we have the Pawn of Ulamog and of course we have the Pawn of Ulamog plus his altar. Yeah, we are going heavy on sack outlets because we want to make sure every turn we get to deploy the squad, send them in, they die, and they come back to hand.

[2:47] This entire process needs to be repeated over and over again reliably because when we do, we profit. Well, for example, the Plunderer and Pawn of Ulamog, those care about non-token creatures and we have the most disposable non-token creatures in all of Magic. Grim Haruspex, Midnight Reaper, and this Garna here, they profit from our creatures dying. And also, Gorbag of Minas Morgul and Gix, Yawgmoth's Praetor. They'll draw us cards when we do hit. And of course, with this kind of deck, we need some draining effects. Unfortunately, we don't get to play Zergel, but Garna does something pretty similar. Usually, we get the draw, but sometimes once in a while we use the drain effect to finish the game. And that's our primary win condition cuz in the early game we will have, you know, three to five creatures dying every turn, but later on we can up that number to seven to 10.

[3:31] And when that happens, cards like Bontu's Monument and Carter can do a lot of damage. And even more efficient are Purphoros and Agathe Instigator. With these out, we can end the game fast. Imagine casting five creatures, doing 10 damage to everyone, and then when they die and get returned to hand, we recast them for more damage. And of course, we can't leave out Syr Konrad. And what's cool about this one is that every creature we cycle through both triggers the dying effect and the creature card leaving graveyard effect. So, yeah, also two damage per raging goblin. In a similar vein, we have desecrated tomb and Tevesh Szat's judgement. Yeah, every turn we'll be getting a bunch of bat tokens and all three triggers from this easily. And now some miscellaneous utility. The best of the bunch is easily sneak attack. This turns every creature in my hand into a raging goblin.

[4:14] And sure they die, but with the sac outlet we can get them back and especially with our commander in our hand we can just you know pay five red mana, sneak everything in, attack, get them back into my hand, get a bunch of triggers. It's the best card in the deck. Yeah, if I push this deck to bracket three I'm tempted to include a tutor just for sneak attack. Aside from that, cool but rude is a cool enchantment where we get to loot every turn because we're attacking. And also the discard part is relevant. Sometimes we'll get 10 cards in hand and just discard naturally and we'll get we'll get six damage just like that. And also it includes a Goad mode as the final mode and the costs are super reasonable and spaced out. It's beyond realistic to reach all three levels and get the full benefit. Gadrak, the Crown of Blood Flame, this is a late game piece that can just replace our commander once we have enough mana or if I have a sac outlet.

[4:57] Lightning Greaves fits well here and finally Empty the Warrens. You can easily get four to five storm triggers and that's a lot of tokens. One interesting perk with this deck is that you get to keep a lot of your resources and engines in your hand. Like if you want you can sacrifice your commander, your sac outlets and hold on to them to be protected from removals or board wipes. So, in this case cards like Reliquary Tower and Thought Vessel are very helpful. This also means we can go a bit heavier on board wipes since they can often be asymmetrical. Now, the Grave Pact effects and Dictate of Erebos of course go in, but also we want Blasphemous Act and Blasphemous Edict. They're just so efficient. Oh, and Toxic Deluge. We do have enough life gain to offset the payment. Finally, ramp. Aside from the boring classic, we do have some synergistic pieces like Birgi making all our goblins essentially free.

[5:43] And also Runaway Steam-Kin is like a mini Birgi. Curse of Opulence is a bit risky, but I put it here because I can't think of a deck that's attacking more consistently like we do. So, yeah, it probably should go in here. And that's the full deck. For lands, mana-fixing is very important, so we prioritize that. Actually, I think with the current list I'm already being a bit greedy with the utility lands, but we do need sack outlets. These ones are important. Also, the MDFCs here have a lot of synergy, so we include those. But yeah, for utility lands, we are prioritizing the ones that make colored mana except Winding Canyons cuz once in a while we'll be able to go off during combat, you know, cast, recast, sack for a bunch of mana, and all that. And Kher Keep because it's just so efficient and such a great mana sink for our deck.

[6:24] And that wraps it up. The deck is not as explosive as you might think. Even if we open with a bunch of goblins, we're not dropping them just yet. It's too risky for the few damage we can get. I mean, if we have some kind of sweet follow-up, sure, but for the most part, you wait for the setup, get a bit of ramp, get some value engines out there, and ideally somewhere between turn four and turn six you drop the commander Ares and a few goblins to begin the onslaught and and do the same every turn after until the game ends hopefully in your favor. The deck is fairly resilient. Like I said, we are kind of good at dodging board wipes, and we always keep our hands full, so we're we don't run out of gas that easily. The deck is not super easy to play cuz there's a bit of sequencing to figure out and also when to drop the goblins, when to drop the value engines, which ones to drop, maybe don't be too greedy and overcommit, and all that.

[7:10] But once you figure it out, it's really fun to play. You can come up with some kind of war chant or even bring a drum or something to instill fear in your opponents when you unleash the same horde for the first, second, or the fifth time. The budget is medium, but you can drop it by a few hundred dollars easily. Nothing expensive here is essential. I mean, the Sneak Attack is just $10. What a great deal. Speaking of great deals, I am sponsored by Kakapopo TCG. They make excellent sleeves, deck boxes, and dice, all kinds of products. Take a look. And if you're interested, get a discount with my code levels all caps to get 5% off. And finally, I just want to mention this deck I have not tested. The commander was spoiled a few days ago. And yeah, I spent all my time testing Captain America. So, this deck I believe should be somewhere between Bat-Bracket 2 and 3.

[7:53] And if you want to load up on Game Changers, a tutor is nice. Jessica's will can't be bad. And aside from that, it's up to you. All right, that's all for today. Thank you. I'll see you in my next video.
