# Hare Apparent Just Got CRAZY with Lorwyn Eclipse
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/8CkbToYyj1k
date: 2025-09-29 | views: 6,286 | likes: 195 | comments: 26 | length: 5:54 | words: 1,214 | wpm: 206.8
tags: MTg, EDH, Magic the Gathering, Commander, Lorwyn, Lorwyn Eclipse, Eirdu, Aristocrats, Hare, Hare Apparent

[0:00] Nerds love puzzles, especially the kind you can solve in public to demonstrate your massive intellect. In Wizards, they know their audience. Crafting nerd bait is practically their specialty. Just take a janky design from a summer intern, add a single rulebreaking line of text, toss it out, and watch the nerds swarm to it. How well does it play? Doesn't matter. That's their problem to solve. Just look at them one by one by one. It's so predict. Hold up. What am I doing there? Hello everyone. This is Jyn with Next Level Commander and I am very smart, but others in my play group are having trouble seeing it partly because of my previous hair apparent decks. Not quite doing what I wanted.

[0:41] Balin feels more like a combo deck or nothing. Arabella and Finineas are explosive but a bit too fragile. All these top commanders are missing something. I felt something mysterious hovering at the edge of my perception when I searched for it. But when I close my eyes, I Oh, yeah. It It's just black. Here, a parent needs black. Simple as that. Aristocrats is the best way, not close. But why am I bringing this up now? I'm glad you asked. Well, because I'm also a bit of an expert in the workings of the interwebs, algorithms, trends, and all that. In simpler terms, here is the pulse of the internet, and here's my finger. Lauren Eclipse is the next hot topic, and I'm always on top of those.

[1:24] And this set happens to include possibly the best hair apparent commander. The one I've been waiting for, Erdo, carrier of dawn. And the flip side, Iselu, carrier of Twilight. Erdo. Her hairdo. No way. This is a coincidence. If that isn't on the nose enough for you, just take a look at the abilities. The front side is explosive and the backside provides resilience. So, our commander does pretty much everything. With commanders like this, we just need to find their weaknesses, address that, and they'll take care of the game. The first problem with Erdo is the cost. It's actually pretty expensive at five mana, and it's probably a removal magnet because our opponents are jealous. So, what do we do?

[2:05] You're expecting me to say protection spells, aren't you? Not this time. I'm a man full of surprises. Subscribe for more. But this time, we are not dedicating too many card slots to keeping our commander around because our deck is a perfectly functional aristocrat's shell. Erdo just takes it over the top. We do want a decent amount of RAM though to get Erdo out as early as possible. Been living in my car for two weeks now to buy the new soul stone. Nothing else really worth addressing here. Nothing too special except for maybe patchwork banner I guess cuz we do plan to attack once in a while. Another weakness we need to address is gas. Erdo the front side allows us to convoke into convoke into more convoke, but we need to keep the gas flowing. So I maxed out on card draw. Turns out black can do anything as long as you feed bunnies into the machine.

[2:48] We are prioritizing card draw in creature form because they can also be convoked out. We actually get so many bunnies once we get the train rolling that sandstone Oracle is a perfectly reasonable inclusion. I was actually this close to tossing in some coslex as well. Might still try them if the deck turns out to be explosive enough, but for now the rule of thumb is creatures with exactly one black pip. Those are ideal because they can chain into each other. The ones with more have to be really freaking good to justify the inclusion. Now, a lot of the best ones here requires bunnies dying. So, sack outlets, umbrellar, zealot seems ridiculously good. But aside from this, we have the typical package. Yeah, this deck is fairly straightforward if you are familiar with aristocrats.

[3:29] The only difference is we need to make room for 24 hairs and a few cards that are broken with them. We don't actually need to win through attack. Draining is just so much more efficient most of the time and doesn't require us to wait a turn for summoning sickness. Can't say I'm a Universe versus Beyond fan if I haven't flipped a Sephro. We don't have too much room for utility unfortunately. A few board wipes that work well with the hairs and a spot removal to not auto lose to certain cards. But yeah, we are very much you do you, I do me, but faster kind of deck. And here we have another reason to play black, the mass reanimation spells. They're actually so efficient when your creatures are two power and two mana value. Echoing return is sweet here, but of course, throwming stone. Now, you notice I haven't talked much about the backside of Erdo because two reasons.

[4:12] One, it's slow and probably not happening often. Your opponents aren't going to watch you cast the front side, vomit your head onto the board, and think, "Huh, I wonder what the backside does. Maybe we should wait and see." And the second reason is if you flip it, you pretty much win on the spot with just some basic setup. Just sack a hair in response to the persist trigger. Sack another, sack another. There are also a ton of infinite combos you can do with persist, but I decided against it. Definitely an option though if you want. And finally, the lens. We need excellent mana fixing. Prioritizing white. I toss in the cavern of souls in because we don't want our commander countered. Three tree city is going to be so much fun here. And the only other lands that need explaining are probably emergence song and winding canyons. Yeah, if possible, I want to go off at instant speed holding up seven or eight mana at the end of turn.

[4:56] Convoke into convoke into convoke on tap transform. Erdo is probably going to win a lot of games. And there you have it. Erdo and Iselu. The deck can definitely be described as explosive. The commander being five mana does slow things down a little bit. It's fairly resilient though, especially if you somehow get to flip to the backside. But even without it, the typical aristocrats deck will turn the board into cards or at least a good chunk of life drain if we get wiped. All Aristocrat decks require a little bit of practice to pilot. But don't worry, if you're taking long enough, the table will chime in to help you kill themselves. budget is mid and it's technically bracket two, but if you wish, we can definitely make use of some game changers like ancient tomb, maybe even a meta vault to power out our commander faster.

[5:39] Demonic tutor is always good and I'd also love to try a bola citadel. But yeah, Lorin Eclipse looks great. I can't wait to try this legend and many others from here. If you enjoy this content, please like and subscribe. I'll see you in the next
