# Don't you miss when the collectors box was ONLY 700 dollars.
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/8ZiU6ny3G5c
date: 2025-06-13 | views: 147 | likes: 5 | comments: 3 | length: 56:12 | words: 9,066 | wpm: 161.4

[0:00] Oh, how are you? This is Jyn from Next Level Commander and today our video is I'm making this for my friend Jonathan who is a massive Final Fantasy fan and trying to get into commander through this set and but instead of buying a commander deck or four, he wants to open a collector's booster box. And these are his words, uh, if I spend $600, $700 on a product, Wizards has my back, right? No way I won't be able to play the game with that much money spent, right? Well, today we are going to find out so you don't have to. Today we have a Final Fantasy collector's booster box. And this is for you, Jonathan. So, we'll open it and try to build a commander deck out of this.

[0:40] So, this is like the booster box game, but we always lose. So, we start with the What is this? The gift or the box topper as Oh, it's Hero's Horn. So, if we're building if we're building tribal, then this is useful. I don't think we're doing that. This set has a lot of legendary creatures, a lot of sagas. Aside from that, I I don't know what to expect. Also, I don't really know value. Maybe I'll do a toil in the end, but for now, our goal is to try to see how close we can to a commander deck or multiple commander decks. All right, let's go.

[1:20] This box we bought for around 700 650ish. Not 100% sure, but yeah, super super expensive and you can do a lot of things with that money, but we decided to do this. So, here you go. Starting off with a hero token. I'll move the packs aside. Hero token and uh the wandering minstrel. Now, this is the this is like a landfall kind of deck with towns. I doubt we're going to get enough towels. So, I'm going to put him in the in the useless pile for now. Joda. Okay, we've been getting a lot of nice commanders.

[2:02] I mean, Joda is a definitely a great commander because you can play because again, this deck is filled with legends and we can play all legends. So, we definitely have a Joda pile and in the pile, why not? We'll put in the wandering minstrel. Now, for this, we have Vivv ornate. Yeah, this I mean I know this card is expensive. I don't know the rest of the pack, but this is a Spellinger deck. Can this card go into go into Joda? Absolutely. Just because just because I mean this ability is great wherever. Even if it just asks two or three mana is already a ridiculous mana dork, right? Maybe hopefully Vivv can can run their own deck.

[2:42] But for now, we'll put Vive in Next up, Balthier and Fran. This is a vehicle deck. Yeah, vehicle commander. I don't think this will be useful for our deck building purposes. So, nope. Protection magic. This is great. This is good for a spellinger deck. You know what? I might make a few separate piles just for now because Joda again, this anything can go into Joda, but for now, we'll try to find cards that are more synergistic. So, right now, we have Vivv pile and Joda pile. Protection magic, spell slinging. Look, what is this? Somebody sacrificed. Oh, this is the excellent counter spell. This could work in Vivv.

[3:23] We'll see. We have the VV pile. Swamp. Ah, very playable card. Clash of Icons. Eons. This is a fight spell that can work with sagas. I don't think this is good enough even for a saga deck, but again, if we need cards to if we're short on cards, h why not? We can play it. Renoa. Renoailli. When enters create a dog token whenever attacks another creature gets plus one plus one. So this is a go wide deck. Okay, we have a creature kind of aggressive beat down go white deck will make her a separate pile. So now we have yeah I mean production magic can go into different different decks.

[4:04] So we'll see. So right now we have I guess three right? Vivv warrior uh Joda and Renoa capital city town cycling. This is fine in five color. Reach for the horizon. Search for two basic lands. Put them into the on the battlefield tap with different names. Okay. Excellent. Reb and cargo ship. Cargo ship. Uh this add this is a manador which adds uh what's for artifacts. We don't have an artifact deck just yet. Monk's fist. It's an equipment card. This can go into Is it Is it good enough for an equipment deck?

[4:45] Honestly, I don't think so because it's just two mana. You're make a making a two- one and then plus one making it a monk, so probably not. Adventures airship. This is like a larger smuggler's copter looks like. Yeah, if we have a vehicle that I mean boltier and friend could work, but I mean the first vehicle we got is blue. So So that was a long was a long way. So right now we have three piles for now and we'll adjust the piles as we open more things. Uh, this is a removal minus two. If it's kicked, sacrifice an artifact creature there. I know you there is some kind of aristocrat build in this set. So, it's possible. But for now, we let's see how many piles we're making.

[5:27] We make in maybe aristocrats pile because I know that is a deck. And we make a yeah, like a spell sling pile and we'll see. And hopefully Vivv because two color is difficult. We need maybe three colors. So Vivvi and Renoa will go into a deck, a threecolor deck that we will open soon. Open the commander. So all right, Zenos when it Zenos enters. Oh, this is someone that kills someone, Yeah, it just kills an opponent. No. Where would we play Zenos? I guess any legend that we don't know where to put, we'll put it into warrior of the light, Joda, just because it's a great card.

[6:14] I mean, this is a good card. It's kind of difficult to trigger unless you build around it, but I mean, who knows? This is Stroke of Midnight, another premium premium removal spell. So, yeah, I hope we get a spell swinger commander in white because we got some spells. Oh, is this the one? Whenever you cast non creature spell, you pay X life where X is that spell's mana cost. Just what we were asking for. the spell slender commander. This is like a what's it called? Shark typhoon kind of card, but you have to pay the life. So, what we're thinking here is we need some life gain and lots of spells. Okay, sweet. Unfortunately, unfortunately, Graa, is it Graa?

[6:55] Graatia is not in Vivv's color. Otherwise, we'd be we'd be cooking. But for now, I think this deck is a lot more likely than this deck is a lot more likely than Vivie. So the graap pile looks like this. We have four cards now in two packs. Four cards. That's pretty good. Now lice hex non creature spells you cast cost one less. As long as you cast two more spells, it's got double strength. Just reducing the cost I think is decent. And having a body that is capable of offense and defense. I take it. Take it. Looking good. Shadow mysterious assassin. Whenever a shadow deals combat damage, you may sacrifice another non-land permanent. and draw two cards and they lose life.

[7:38] Now, the draw two cards is a lot more relevant. I doubt we're going to have big enough permanence to sack, but this is the aristocrat deck. This won't be the Confederate. But we have the Aristocrat deck. And this could even work in u in Graa just because let's see main. Yeah, all of these cards actually can work in graa. I might just make it one big pile and go and go grab open enough cards. We'll see in the end. But yes, for now we are going to make one big pile. Even though se shadow is a creature, it doesn't trigger gra. But I I hope I hope I'm pronouncing this right because uh oh boy, Graha Graha. Uh yeah, Goen is not a not a non creature, but we're making tokens and sacrificing them tokens to to draw cards and I think it's reasonable.

[8:26] So now we've merged some of our piles. Next up, Gilgamesh. Now this does not go into any pile. We built this before and this is yeah an equipments commander. If we have an aggressive equipments deck this will be it is definitely a theme. So we have a new pile for that planes. That is well that is sweet art. Zedane. Zedane. I love Zedane. But we are not building Zedane in this deck uh in this video. So Zedane I don't think he's useful in anything. So, we'll put put him in uh in Joda seems good. Crystal fragments equipment plus one plus one exile.

[9:09] So, the transform ability is what's relevant here. Prevent all damage that will be dealt to creatures you control this turn. Tap all creatures your opponents control. I guess we're starting an equipment deck. If we open uh what's his name? Cloud or something. Togal. Whenever a human uh when you cast a human, that creature enters with an additional counter for each dog or wolf you control. Well, that's like this is made for Renoa. This has to be related to Renoa, right? I mean, I guess yeah, we'll make a pile here. Random encounter. Shuffle your library. Mill four cards. Foot creature cards sh this way onto the battlefield.

[9:49] Put each creature card this way. They gain haste. At the beginning of the next end step, return those creatures to their owner's hand. So, it's like you steal them for a turn. Zach far protects a creature interest with a counter. And uh yeah, this is like equipment synergy. So, this could go into Renoa or Gilgamesh, but I'm more confident in Gilgamesh or or the equipment deck happening. Um, Missian Elder. When this creature enters, create a wizard that is like a mini gutter snipe. It deals damage, one damage to each opponent for each non-creature spell you cast.

[10:31] So everything red goes into Vivv. We'll see if Vivv can be a thing. I mean, I hope. I mean, if you open Vivv, yeah, building around Vivv sounds sweet. Uh, town. Okay. And Higus, Gigas, Mountain Cycling, Trample Haste. Yeah, this is a fine card. We no longer have a beat down deck. I guess we kind of do with Renoa. Uh oh, we'll make a pile. We'll make a pile. Okay, next pack. Tifa. Holy. This might be expensive. I'm not sure, but we don't have a deck for it.

[11:13] So, beat down. Wow. And Siri Conrad. That's sweet. We don't have a graveyard themed deck, but whenever another creature dies or a creature card is put into graveyard. So, this doesn't uh this kind of works with our Esper deck here. Kind of doesn't. So, for now, we'll put we'll put Sirard into Joda. Eye of Nithog. Enchant creature. Creature becomes a 42 dragon with death touch and is golded. When I is put into a battle a graveyard, return it to the owner's hand. And thankfully, our commander for says none creature.

[11:53] And this Yeah, it's super So, and this is a great card that you can cast repeatedly to gold your opponent's creatures. So, this goes in here. Robon pay life equal to Robin's power. Ward. Whenever Robin attacks, attach up to one target equipment to target creature. Target attacking creature equipment deck. The wandering rain again. Oo, summon Leviathan. Return each creature that isn't a Kraken, Leviathan, Merolk, octopus, or serpent to their owner's hand. And next is whenever one of those attacks, you draw a card. Very tribal. Uh, does this go into any deck right now, enchantment creature? Not really, but it's a really powerful card.

[12:35] So, we we'll see. We'll see what we can do with this. A swep. Nice. Solen uniform. Choose target creature you control and target equipment. Gain control of the equipment until the end of turn and attach the equipment. This is way too narrow. And yeah, it's it's not even a permanent. It's not even a permanent steel effect. It's sweet art though, but we're not going to have a use for this. I doubt we're going to have a use for this. Titus Bliss Ball Star. Whenever an artifact you control entrance, put a plus one counter. When Titus attacks, tap target creature. We I doubt we're going to have an artifact deck. So, nope. Rufus Shinra.

[13:18] When Rufus attacks, if you don't control a creature named Dark Star, create a Dark Star. Create Dark Star a legendary two white and black doggo. Uh, I mean, this is not super specific. Like, it can we have we have the the human and dog stack here, so that's cool. But the color is a bit off. We'll put Rufus in Joda just for now. Travel the overworld. Affinity for towns. Draw four cards. Sorcery. Uh, we can play some towns, but seven mana, draw four. It's not great. It's not great. If we can have one or two towns, it's decent. Uh, but even then, I I guess we'll put this in uh as per for now.

[14:01] But it's probably getting cut unless I mean, we open two or three counts. That's or Vivv because Vivv reduce cost. Viv doesn't reduce cost but Viv can make more mana but we'll see. Vivv right now is not really coming together. Uh Dark Knight's great sword equipment gets plus three plus one and is a knight pay three life. This is cool. Uh we'll see what color the equipment deck is. Grandpaw's death touch one. Nope. Nope. Town greeter. When this creature enters no four cards, you may put a land card from the one into your hand. You may put a town card into your if you if you put a town card into your hand this way. Don't have enough towels. A white or a when this enters exile something is a mana rock.

[14:46] This might be okay. Uh well, it's suboptimal but serviceable again in our noncreature deck. Noncreature deck. It can also go into other decks but for now that's what we have. All right, we'll continue. Next card. Oh, Sepharov emblem. That's nice. Wait. Yeah, this is the emblem. Oh, that's cool. Summon GF Gerber. Double strike when you next surveil one. Double strike when you next cast an instant sorcery. Copy it. So, this is a spell slinging saga.

[15:27] When you next cast an instant sorcery, copy it twice. Yeah, this is the spellinger saga. Unfortunately, doesn't go into Esper, but another card for Vivi. This is Ming Wu Mangora the Uh, this is a great card actually in goes into any white deck really. But for now, we'll put it into our second most Oh, it's legendary. Never mind. Goes into Joda. Goes into Joda. Yuna's decision. Sacrifice a creature. If you do draw a card, draw a card, then you put a creature from your hand onto the battlefield. Now, this is not great. Find another way to return one or two target permanent cards. Four mana. This is not a great card, honestly. I think, but sure, we have a green deck.

[16:09] It goes into our green deck. The Falcon airship restored. This is the graveyard airship, I believe. Yeah. When you hit when you hit someone, sacrifice it, and you can reanimate a creature, and then it can also rean reanimate itself. We don't currently have a graveyard deck, so we'll put it aside. But oh, it's a legendary artifact. Does Joda trigger off legend legendary artifacts here? We are desperate for We're desperate for Joda. Okay, Joda triggers off legendary spells. So, this goes into Joda. We might have two decks. Robon. Robon. This we already have it. It's in the equipment deck. Ancient Adam adamomentoys.

[16:51] Adamtoise. Wow. This is the meme card. Aside from the cactus, this is like the other turtle. The meme card. All damage will be dealt to you and other permanence you control is dealt to this creature instead. When this creature dies, exile it. Yeah, we have big green. Big green mountain. Vanil When vanil enters, mail two cards, return a permanence from the graveyard to your hand. Justice alone is decent. And there's a melt ability, but the problem with melt is that we're not going to we don't there's no partner, right? So, we can't play them as commander. And at the same time, they don't search for each other, right?

[17:34] So, it's difficult to play something like this. But this is fine. It's a fine ability even without the melt. So, we we'll put her in Joda and hopefully get the other half. We have summon Fenrare. Fener search library for a basic land. put it onto the battlefield, tapped, then shuffle. And then creatures get bigger and draw a card. Yeah, this is serviceable in our wolf human and wolf tribal apparently. And we found a foil version of our commander. Well, our our green, white, red beatdown deck is going strong, it seems like. Evil reawaken return target creature card from Battlefield.

[18:14] It's five mana. It's fine. We don't have any creatures in our esper deck in our Graa deck. So, this might not have a deck right now. If we find a Graveyard deck later, then it might go in, but for now, no place for this card. Phoenix Down, return target creature with mana value four or less from your graveyard to the battlefield tapped. This is also kind of the graveyard deck. Can this work in our other decks? It's pro. It's not terrible. We'll set this aside for now. Let's see if we need a need a card like this in the future. Pump bliss ball shot. We will not play pump spells. Uh this one summon GF if you may discard a card if you do draw a card and add red.

[18:58] Three mana 32. Not awful. Not awful. Uh enchantment creature. We'll set this aside for now. Maybe we have room for this. And this is a planet beast that can repador. Do we want to play manadors? Maybe. I think Madors are I mean we want them to have a little bit more utility like the tool Um but we will yeah we'll set this aside. We'll set this aside. We still have we still got to have standards. We can't just put in every card. So next up safer alasi almasi. Whenever a creature you control attacks it gains alone against double strike.

[19:39] Whenever a safe deals come damage, you may cast instant sorcery with mana value of three or less from your graveyard. Does this work in the in the equipment stack? Maybe he's holding a sword. I was my hopes were high, but for now I think he's more a Joda card. Yeah, I guess he goes into Joda. Three mana though. Not sure. Luca Stadium. Whenever you deal damage, you remove point counter. This is a stricks haven uh stadium. Yeah. And it's it's a manor rock, but it also wins games sometimes. Not usually. And this is not going to win us games in our decks, the decks we have now, because we we're not going white.

[20:21] And it adds one colorless, so it doesn't go into five Set this aside for now. The Falcon again. The Falcon. Yeah, we have. Okay. Joda Cloud's limit break. Destroy target type creature. destroy any number of attack creatures with different controllers and destroy all attack creatures. It's a decent spell. Not the best removal. It's not like stroke of midnight, but it's fine. It's a spell. Graa kimari valiant valiant guardian. At the beginning of combat, put a counter on Kimari and tap target creature and you may have Kimari become a copy of that creature.

[21:01] Again, this is a legendary good stuff. Doesn't really fit into any of our archetypes currently. So Joda goldz crystal collector whenever an artifact you control enter survey one at the beginning of end step if you control four or more art this is the artifact commander we don't have a deck for that you need artifact and a graveyard so it's way too specific so we'll set this aside island sure seat of the sanctum is a mana rock no it's a land it's a town five mana mil two cards then you may sacrifice this to return a permanent it. It's actually not We're not going to play this in Joda because five color, but maybe in our beatdown deck. Maybe.

[21:42] Maybe. We'll set this aside for now, but we'll find a deck for it later. Judge Magister. Whenever another creature or artifact control dice, put a plus one% counter. It's a kind of a mediocre Aristocrats payoff. Joda might win, but I'm not sure how good it's going to be. So, Fang Fearless. Oh, is this the other side? Wait, so let's take a look. So, the two sides are different treatment. One is full art, the other one is normal. But doesn't matter because we could play we get to play them.

[22:22] But the key here is both sides have to be decent. Let's see thing. Whenever one or more cards leave your graveyard, you draw a card and you lose one life. This ability triggers once a turn. How do cards leave your graveyard? We're not a graveyard deck, but if the backside is powerful enough, we might still do it. This is sweet. Vigilance, menace, trample, reach haste. Whenever it dies, destroy target permanent and return a non-leendary permanent card. Really? I mean, I think we still play it just because the cards are decent, but this is Wait, does the front sight say Thank god it doesn't. Okay, we they go into Joda Radius return creatures get plus three plus three.

[23:06] This is like an overrun. Return up to two target permanent cards from your graveyard. Yeah, this is fine in our in our beatd down deck that we're still not giving up on. Ultros, the obnoxious octopus non-creature spell. If it's for if four mana was spent, tap target creature when already cast one creature spell. If at least eight mana was spent to cast, put eight plus one counters on altros. I don't think I mean four mana is Yeah, I don't think we will have enough to trigger this. Maybe in Vivv just because VV can play big mana spells. Maybe maybe VV big mana spell is a thing. We'll do that.

[23:46] Okay, next up, Town, Shinra, Reinforcements, Mill Three, Gain three. This is for the graveyard deck. We don't have that yet. Next pack. Hero. Oh jeez. What is this? Noctis, Prince of Lucis. Oh, this is the graveyard. This is not the This is the artifact deck. Okay, maybe we'll we'll take a look later to see if we have enough artifacts to make this work, but at the moment I don't think so. At the moment, I think we're pretty far behind. If we open some sweet artifacts, we're going to bring this back in.

[24:27] But for now, Nature's Charm. Wow. Destroy Nature's Claim. Sorry. Nature's Claim. Destroy target artifact or enchantment is controller gains three life. It's a decent removal and serviceable. Not great, but we only have one green deck. So, Nebblehine of Flame. Choose target creature you control. It deals damage equals power to other creature. Yeah, this is this makes sense in equipment deck, right? It's like removal and kind of evasion. Doesn't work in VV because we're not really pumping VV, are we? Oh, we're pumping VV a little bit.

[25:08] maybe in VV it makes more sense. Yeah, Viv is not giving up. Come for more shuriken. Whenever this creature attacks, tap target creature it and Oh, and then you make up for the difference in power in plus one counters. This is not bad. This is not bad. Equipment sin spy punishment. This is also a viable commander. This is the graveyard deck commander. Okay, we're getting the commanders. Yeah, we're going to make matters for we will have to see later because we don't want to make too many piles, but in the end we will see. Joshua Phoenix dominant. Um, Boros cares about graveyard.

[25:50] We don't have a deck for that. Let's see the backside. Press into a phoenix. Deals two damage to each opponent. Has lifelink. H just because we are a little bit a little bit desperate for cards. So Joda I mean it's it's fine serviceable. Joda swamp summon choco mog other creatures you control get plus one plus oh we don't have a deck for this snow veilers power equal to no nope vanilla the other vanilla other other treatment I mean cool clash of the icons we saw this one Barrett Wallace when Barrett attacks it deals damage equals the number of equip creatures you control okay this is not a strong card but it's equipment themed so Sure.

[26:39] Magite attack infantry plus one. One mana one one plus one. As long as control another artifact search for another one of these. If we open 15 more, we have a deck. Adventures in land town gain life. Resentful revelation. Look at top three cards. Put one of them into your hand. The rest into your graveyard. That's for the graveyard deck or the spelling deck. Spelling for now. Next up, collector booster number I think number number seven, I believe. Hero Aith Gang Pearl. Wow, I'm getting all the ladies in in search foil.

[27:21] Whenever you gain life, put a plus one counter on AF. When Aith dies, put X plus one counters on each legendary. Joda it is. We got another Sid. Equipment and vehicle spells cost one less to cast. Say no more. This is the equipment card. Return target equipment or vehicle. Sure. Equipments. Benon. Once during each of your turns, you may cast a creature spell from among your uh cards in your graveyard. Whenever you attack, you may pay one and discard a card if you do draw a card. Oh, sorry. I missed. Has to be put there from from the battlefield this turn. So, the one creature that you loot this turn, you can cast it if it's a creature. Sure, Joda.

[28:01] The darkness crystal. Black spells cost one less to cast. If a non-token creature opponent controls will die, instead exile it and you gain two life. Then you can steal a Oh, no. It has to be exiled with dark crystal. But you can steal a creature exiled with a plus one counter on it. Oh, it doesn't say sorcery speed. I just assumed it would say activate at sorcery speed, but this would make sense in spells. Would make le more sense in spells, less sense in Joda. So we have that Zenos. We already opened it. Island Summon Fener. We got this. The Emperor of Palamia goes into Vivi Ultimacia.

[28:42] This is our graveyard deck. Ian uh Lo Cole, sorry. Ian Cole lock. This is also our graveyard deck. Circle of power. You draw two cards and lose two life. create a wizard that pings people and wizards get plus one plus and lifelink is our commander here for Esper a wizard. It is a cat wizard, but it already has lifelink. But this spell is I mean draw two cards is already good enough. So yes, sephro intervention destroy targeted creature. Say no more. Haste magic pumps a creature. This makes sense in Vivv and it can't trip. Yeah, because you're pumping Vivv, right? As long as you control seven more. Nope.

[29:23] Next pack hero again. How many tokens are there in this set? I feel like not too many. Squall seed mercenary. Whenever a creature control attacks alone, it gains double strike and when it deals damage to a player, return target permanent card with mana value three or less. I feel like this can go into the equipment deck just because double strike works well with equipments. We haven't opened any equipments yet. I'm not sure he works well in Jo. Yeah, maybe decent in Joda. We'll do Joda for now and later we will again we'll switch if Ooh, Lightning Bolt doesn't go into any deck but super sweet to open.

[30:10] Oh, we just opened a surge foil of our Wait, this is not our commander. This is the commander deck commander. At the beginning of each end step, if a player lost four or more life this turn, you draw a card. Whenever you cast a non-creature spell with mana three or greater, Yashota deals two damage. Oh, so perfect. Yeah, and honestly, I was hoping it to be closer, but at this moment, I don't think it's particularly close. We are making escort spells in there. And we are Well, look at the other decks, too, in the end. But yeah, we have how many cards here? We have I'm thinking 10 15 cards. Yeah, Seymour Flux. At the beginning of upkeep, you may pay one life. If you do, draw a card and put a counter on Seymour Flux.

[30:53] It's a solid. No, it's a legendary creature. So, cool. Summon Exxion. Exile target creature opponent controls until this saga leaves the battlefield. It's a decent card. Put a counter on it or on up to two creatures and you gain two life. Is it a wolf? No, it's not. But marine white from father to son search for a vehicle reveal put into your hand. If it's cast from graveyard you get it onto the battlefield. Now we don't have vehicles man. Island summon summon primal Garuda deals four damage to a tapped creature.

[31:34] Another creature gets plus one and flying. Not I don't think this is strong enough for anything. Sashiva tap target creature for a stun counter. Draw a card for each tap creature opponent's control. Again, it's not legendary and it doesn't do enough for our other decks. Ridia, whenever a landing control enters, you may discard a card if you do draw a card. Oh, and X return target saga card with mana with mana value X for the turn because it leaves. No, it doesn't leave. It just gains haste, right? All right. So, with a finality counter and against haste and activate a sorcery. So, if we have a saga deck right now, I think we have five or six cards for saga.

[32:15] So, not quite enough. We are Yeah, I don't think we're going to get there. Reno and Rude legendary menace. When it deals combat damage, exile the top card. You may sacrifice another creature or artifact. If you do, you may play the exile card. That's just way too much. This is a terrible, terrible Ragavan variation. Um, does not go into Joda. We're not going to play this in Esper. So, nope. Summon Shiva again. Lunatic Pandora one mana legendary artifact surveill one and sacrifice it to destroy something. This is removal. I don't think we're going to play this as a removal in any deck other than the artifact deck.

[32:56] Magic dumper protects a creature. This is fine. This is fine. It's a protection spell for our commander. We'll put this into Esper for now and but is also do serviceable in VV. You're not alone. Just a pump spell. Nope. Okay. Flector Booster number. We have four left. Hero. The wondering minstro again in search foil. Wow. Can't believe it. The nea capashi. Yeah, this goes into equipments. Wrecking ball our equipment deck plus I guess seven makes all our creatures equipped creatures 7 seven.

[33:37] So seems fine. Master Seymour put a counter beginning of combat put a counter on a creature equal to master Seymour's power and has monstrosity. I mean we have a counter theme a bit of a counter theme with our green white so it's fine. High dagger at the beginning of combat on your turn. Target creature gets bigger until the end of turn where X is the number of soldiers you control. Don't think we have soldiers. Oh, you can create soldiers at the beginning of your end step. Create a soldier a number of white soldiers equal to the number of opponents who control more creatures than you. I mean, in our white deck, our opponents are not going to have more creatures than us probably.

[34:22] Maybe it's still fine. Oh, actually I like this in uh in Graa just because we don't play creatures, right? So this will play catchup and at the same time you can pump our commander for lifelink. So I'm not sure if I'm trying to force Graa here, but it makes sense, right? Makes sense. So Graa, let's go. Our Realm Reborn other permanent we control have add one mana of any color. This card is sweet, but I don't think it works. I guess we play it in Joda just because mana fixing is important and in five color I'm not sure how much how much budget we have to spend on lands. So Joda is it legendary? It is not legendary planes.

[35:04] So dang search foil. Do we open two of these in search foil? I'm not sure honestly. Search foil I I uh it's a good for Joda. Are we forcing it? Do we have worse cars in Joda than For now, I'd say no, just because the effect is not really impactful enough. Omega heartless evolution. When Omega enters, tap up to one target nonline prominent that opponent controls. Sorry, for each opponent. Put X stun counters on each of those prominence and you gain X life where X is the number of non-basic lens you control. Uh, it's fine. In five color, we won't have many basics. So when this enters, we will tapping.

[35:45] We'll be tapping four things with seven stun counters and gaining seven life. It's fine. It's fine. Joda self-destruct target creature control deals X damage to any target and X damage to itself. Vivv won't die from this, but I don't think this spell is impactful enough for Vivv. Graa. Wait, Tia. Another Graa. This says, "Reach. Whenever one or more other creatures or artifacts you control die, draw a card." Wow. We don't have an aristocrat deck, but does this make sense in Graa just because we can attack people and feel like we might be forcing it a bit.

[36:29] We'll put her in Joda for now. If we have an aristocrat deck, we can put her in or him her her in. Sorry if I mess it up. Realm sketching. Create a token that is copy of target artifact creature or land. Excellent spell. Summon fat Chocoo. Create a green bird that has landfall plus one and creatures you control. Gain trample. Seems good. Beat down. Dreams of Laguna. Serveville one. Draw a card. Flashback. Yeah. And trigger scrawth. Black magic. Black mage's rod. This is another Oh, this is a black spell singing card, right? it. Oh, you can turn equipped creatures into into the black mage.

[37:11] That's fine. I think that's fine. It also creates a hero token because it's non non creature. Three more packs left. I mean, Graa is looking good, but we're still missing probably 20 cards. So, we'll see. This is a foil Carrick. For each block in a cost, you may pay two life rather than pay that mana. Whenever you cast a black spell, put a plus one counter on Carrick on EMTT Selch. Yeah, it's a super powerful card. I don't think it goes into any deck. I don't think Yeah. Reluctant Guardian man for three, four mana.

[37:51] Whenever it deals damage to a player, you may exile and transform it. It's transformed. Each opponent discard a card and draw a card. Each opponent sacrifices two creatures of their choice. Doesn't go into any deck. So, and it's it's a decent card though. So, it goes into Jonah. Rejoin the fight. Mill three cards then starting with the next opponent. In order, each opponent chooses a creature in your graveyard that hasn't been Uh again, we don't have enough creatures, I think, in uh in Graa to play this. So, once again, our graveyard deck is looking good. Maybe Tataru Taru. Watch this be the only name only name I don't mess up.

[38:32] Tataru Taru. When Tataroo Taru enters, you draw a card and target opponent may draw a card. Whenever opponent draws a card, if it isn't that player's turn, create a treasure tapped once a turn. It's a fine. Good stuff card. I mean, I don't mind just having a legend that enters and draw a card. can trips and oh also makes a treasure with her ability. Yeah, I think Joda Joda eats. Okay, summon Brin. I give up. Exile the top part of your library. During your turn, you may put a lore counter on the saga. Sorry. During any turn you put a lure counter on the saga, you may play it.

[39:13] When you next cast a creature spell this turn against haste. It's pretty aggressive. Pretty aggressive. We don't have a H. Maybe, maybe this deck has red. We don't have a commander yet. Right now, this deck is green light, the beatdown deck, but hopefully we open some naya commander. Uh, but for now, yeah, this is what we have. Planes summon Ifit. We already looked at this black walls number three. Why isn't this in Esper colors? It's black and red. This is a cool commander, but we don't have a deck for it. Also, not Joda. Unexpected request. Steal something, untap it, and you may attach any equipment you control to it.

[39:54] Not impactful enough for commander. Poison the waters. Creature get minus one minus one. And thought seeds. Kind of thought seas for artifacts or creatures. Nope. Doesn't do enough. Ashie, princess of Damasca. Whenever Ashie attacks, look at the top five cards of your library. You may reveal an artifact from among them. So, this is the artifact card. Insomnia. Another town and blazing bomb. Noncreature spell. If at least four mana gets plus one, sacrifice it, deals damage. No, I don't know. No, doesn't do enough. Two more packs. Two more packs. We will sum things up after this, but I'd be I'd be really impressed if we're even halfway to a deck.

[40:35] Sorry, this is hero. Another Tifa. Wow, that's pretty sweet. Not search foil, but still pretty sweet. Kua Inala, this is the wizard tribal commander. It's tempting, but we're not building Uh, Titus Ununas Guardian. This is the plus one counter commander or any counters. Okay, this works because we have sagas and we have plus one counter cards. So maybe hope time.

[41:16] Hope is the life gain and mill commander. I is way too specific for us to build around it. Does this do anything in Joda? Not really. Booen Bugenhagen Weiss Elder is a manador that if you have a creature with seven power or greater, it draws a card. This works in beatd down also in Joda because Joda pumps our creatures. Add mana of any color. I think Joda's closer to to finishing. So, Joda. Oh, this is a sweet card. Summon Knights of the Round. This goes into our beatdown deck. prompt to our gentum. Whenever you cast non creature spell, no gf if side quest raise a choke.

[42:01] Not doesn't do enough. Ignis sia. This is fine. You may ramp tops cards. You may put a land tap interplay plate tapped. So, this is fine in Joda. Draon's Lance Eco has get plus one plus O and it's a knight in addition to his other types has flying again the artifact deck is probably not happening but we try when this dies create a one-1 colorless sabotener whenever landing control nope and uh scorpion sentinel not quite all right our last pack Hero the wind crystal spell white spells cost one less if you would gain life gain twice that much life creatures you control gain flying line I think this might be a finisher in graa could also it could go into a lot of decks but but I think it makes sense in new found adventure search for oh it's a this is fine

[43:05] in Joda Emtt Selch. This is the graveyard deck. When it attacks, draw a card, discard a card, and if you have 14 cards in your graveyard, you can transform this, which can it's like uh Yagmas will forever on your turn. So, yeah, the graveyard deck trans. We wait, we didn't see this yet. Draw a card, discard a card, you lose one life, and you make a token. Yeah, beautiful. And this triggers our commander twice, too, with rebound, doesn't it? Yeah, this is sweet. If the darkness crystal we opened, forest Omega, we opened Gaas Van Bossar. Each player sacrifices a creature token of their choice.

[43:49] Uh, each player sacrifices a non-creature token. Non-token creature and enchantment. Yeah, this is a fine legend. Poo poo UFO. Nope. Titus. Not really. Albec salvagers. Whenever a creature, this creature or another creature or artifact you control dies, you drain target opponent. It's like a crappy blood artist. Instant ramen. Wow, beautiful card. Does this do anything in in deck in an artifact deck? Maybe retrieve the esper. Create a robot and hectice. When this creature enters each opponent, discard a card. Okay, this is our our pack and we'll be right back.

[44:31] We'll save some of the expense expensive cards and we'll make some piles and take a look at how close we are to at least one commander deck. I'll see you soon. Okay, so now we have the decks in piles. Let's first talk about the ones that didn't work. Vivv did not work because we don't have enough enough spells. I really wanted to make Vivv, but yeah, even with the blue cards from here, we we're not close. We're at we're at maybe 15 cards. Next up is equipments. We didn't open a commander. But even if we get a commander from the outside, we we didn't open enough equipments. Yeah. So, it's a bit awkward. It's a cool deck, though. I want to make this maybe someday. And then Joda is just a mean Joda.

[45:12] It's there's no synergy, no cohesion. Joda is the one one synergy piece. I mean, it's probably pretty strong, but I'd rather play decks that are more cohesive, more synergistic. Okay. And speaking of synergy, graa tia. Yes. And this is so good just because it's so open-ended. You can play any non-creature spell, right? Sure, you got to pay life. We need to put in some life game cards, but at the same time, this this does unlike a lot of other control decks, this can close out games, right? You can make large tokens and just smack people with them. So, it's solid win condition, too. All right, we have Yesh. Uh yeah, just excellent synergy with a with a commander, right?

[45:55] You can beat people with your tokens and what's it called? You you can drain your opponents when you cast your spells are your big spells. It's beautiful. Also, apparently pretty expensive. Uh speaking of spells, yeah, four mana. Perfect for Yashen, Also, you gain two life. That's good. And here, now here you lose two life. But yeah, all these spells are excellent. Darkness Crystal. Again, I like it a lot because you can instant speed activate this, so it fits in a control deck. And also, the life gain is do not underestimate the life game. It's going to add up. Great removal spell. This draw spell is kind of iffy. It's seven mana for four cards, but I mean, we can play some towns, right?

[46:35] We open some towns, so maybe six mana, five mana, and you can create a large token. This won't get cut, but for now, it's serviceable. Eye of Nithog. Decent card. Veins Treachery. Shadow. This card is I mean again it makes sense with our commander just because we're sacrificing tokens, but aside from that, there's not too much synergy. This might get cut. Lice hexed. Great card for a spellinger build. And unfortunately for the sacrifice, we we can't really sacrifice our commander, but but it's still a decent counter spell at three mana. Stroke of Midnight Premium Removal.

[47:18] Even if you get even just building EDH stacks with the complete card pool, I sometimes play this because it's it's just solid solid card. Protection magic. Yeah, defend your creatures. the wind crystal. Got to gain that life. Ultima board wipe. Not the best board wipe, but it does stop your opponent's like dying triggers, which you don't have a lot of, so it's decent. Black mage, dreams of lagona, and uh yeah, copy something. High dugger again in this deck is to kind of because we don't have a lot of creatures. We make creature tokens though.

[47:58] So depending on how many tokens we end up making cuz we may be making large tokens, go tall or go wide. If you go wide, we have to cut this. But if not, it's a decent way to again to block to up the the battlefield, right? Magic temper protection and resentful revelation. Yeah, seems fine. And aside from Yeshota or sorry, from Kongraa, I'll first count 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 23. We got 23 cards. Yeah. So, we are we only need 40 more nonlands and maybe 37 lands and we have a deck.

[48:42] But I was going to say aside from Graa, we got some pleasant surprises. We got this deck here. Sin Spyro's punishment. Yeah, I was talking about a graveyard deck and we found the the endgame, right? With this entering, we can bring back every permanent from the graveyard as long as we don't have lands. And it's nice in this deck because because we're not milling kind of blindly. We are surveilling. We are choosing what goes in the graveyard. And we have abilities that can exile from the graveyard. But we'll take a look. Send Spyus Punishment, our top end. And we have Ignis. Ignis is an awful card, but we found a use here because again, it's decent ramp and also it can in a pinch you can exalt lens from our graveyard.

[49:25] So that Yeah. So that we don't get lens for sin. And at the same time, Fenware, it's kind of strange in this deck, but if you think about it like a Sakur Trap Elder, I think it makes sense, right? It ramps you because Archander is expensive and at the same time it will die, right? It will die naturally, which fills our graveyard and it's just a solid card, solid value. Lunatic, Pandora, I use it for the survey ability, but the destroy can also come come in handy. Newfound adventure, we just need ramp. also ramp and we got these two. Yeah, they can both do work in our mail deck, in our graveyard deck, I mean. So cool.

[50:07] Ultimacia with the time travel ability, the time walk ability can come in handy because again we have we will have enough cards in our graveyard. But uh for the most part just entering and attacking Serville 2 is not terrible. It's serviceable, right? And sometimes you can you can get a pleasant surprise. EMTT Selch, great card, great enabler for the graveyard strategy. Selective the Falcon. Reanimating things from our graveyard. Rejoin the fight. Block coal. Not a great card, but still decent engine if you get it early. Evil re uh reawakened returns things. And town greeter. I misread when I open the pack, but this can get any land.

[50:48] And in that case, it's decent just because again, we don't want lands in our graveyard. So this can mill while saving the land into our hand. And yeah, we found a place for Sir Conrad. And this deck is actually pretty good, pretty great. And uh Yuna's decision, we put this in here just because it's recursion and also you can sacrifice a smaller creature. And we even put this land in just because it can return its recursion and also it can go too. Although putting this land in the graveyard is not the best. So let's see how many cards are in this deck. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 cards. And also there's a card from here that we can use.

[51:29] Uh yeah, resentful revelation. There you go. Fills our graveyard and also has flashback. What's not to love? So yeah, we have two skeletons here. And both seem pretty fun. And there's just one more that I thought was kind of We opened a Titus is one of the commander decks uh commander deck commanders and it allows us to move counters note any counter from creature to creature. Now it's kind of cool with post plus one counters but what's amazing is when you do it with sagas, right? If you can remove saga counters onto another saga or onto a creature even, you can keep reusing the same saga ability over and over.

[52:11] So uh let's look at the second ability. Whenever one want or workers you control with counters deal damage to a player, you may draw a card and proliferate. Yeah, this is just perfect for a counter commander. And this allows us to use some of the cool sagas that we opened. We don't know where else to put it. Summon Leviathan. Yeah, if you play this uh you can keep bouncing things if you need to. In a pinch, you can keep using Titus to remove a counter and every turn it will bounce something. It will keep the board locked down. It will bounce Titus too, but you can cast Titus on the first main combat for just three mana. Sorry, first main face and then you can yeah, you can get the chain going. Kimakuri Kimaki is it works with counters.

[52:51] It doesn't have too much synergy with close counters, but you can copy a saga perhaps or you can Yeah, it has counters to you can move with Kimari with Titus, I mean to pump something else. Just a solid solid good stuff. Ath gains borrow. This goes in here because she can gain life and uh when she dies you get counters. Also she has she has counters this synergy all around. Now Bugenhagen isn't there isn't too much synergy but it's a decent ramp card. And also your creatures are probably going to be bigger than most creatures. His seven power seems reasonable. So we have this in here. Why are your creatures bigger?

[53:32] Because of our wolf guy tool. our wolf who is a friend to humans which we have a few of. Yes, we have some humans and also a decent manador. But why we really have uh counters we have what's it called? Why we are expecting large creatures is because master Seymour Master Seymour this this card will pump your word. This is like your win condition. You will be pumping a lot of power onto your creatures and also monstrosity. you can make himself huge. Doesn't have to rely on your commander doing the moving, doing the pumping. Yeah, tool and also Fenrer because again with your commander, you can just keep putting lands onto the you can this one you can keep removing creatures.

[54:20] You will never they will never come back unless they blow up And this is sweet. Like this is one of the payoff cards. You just keep making tokens, right? You move on to I mean it will take a while but you will get to what's it called? Chapter four and you can just keep saving it until you want to override until you want to do the plus two plus two. So that's sweet summon primal Garuda. Another decent effect. Not amazing but kill something. And Shiva why not? and also Ming Wu uh Mangara just because it's a it's got lifelink right so it can if you pump Mingvu you can get some value and also it's just a really good card in commander and also we have a card from Graa to go in here it's the protection spell I mean the boardw can definitely go in right the boardw can go in and uh protection magic specifically also the removal why not so what do what do we have we off.

[55:25] 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 16 cards. A bit low. We just need another 37 hands. But again, I'm pleasantly surprised by the amount of synergy and cohesion we have in these in these boxes, even though we just opened a few packs. So again, I wouldn't open a box with a goal of building a commander deck in mind because then you will have to sell the expensive cards you opened and uh try to trade them for other cards. It's a lot of work. Just buy the precons. But I'm not going to lie, it's also kind of fun to do. I might do one another one myself secretly.

[56:06] I won't tell Jonathan. But yeah, that's all for the video. Thank you for watching.
