# Yume will REDEFINE how you play EDH (seriously)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/98n7dA1RUUI
date: 2026-09-04 | views: 62,047 | likes: 1,127 | comments: 405 | length: 12:23 | words: 2,700 | wpm: 218.4
chapters: 0:00 Meet Yume; 0:22 The problem with group hug and politics; 1:54 The solution; 4:50 The goods for sale (removals); 6:30 More goods (but crazier and crazier); 9:13 Shop security; 10:00 Ramp and the backroom schemes
tags: YUME, group hug, EDH, Commander, Mystery Commander, Magic the Gathering

[0:09] Hello, hello. Uh this is Yumi and this is my inner voice. Yumi stands for you and me. And together we are going to reprogram how we and especially how our opponents approach the game of EDH. Now many EDH players, including this guy, draw a hard line with politics and group hug. Understandably because with this play style it's very easy to fall into a slippery slope and turn the game into some kind of uncontrolled chaos. But I sure have many have wondered is it possible through thoughtful design and consistent enforcement to create rules within the game that your play group will know how to follow and be happy to. Sometimes. For example, there was some brainstorming for an Oko EDH deck that will do everything it can to one shot the player who takes monarch from her.

[0:55] And that attempt to add an unspoken rule to the game makes sense because of the double efficiency when attacking the monarch. But with what we have, there is potential for so much more. Now assist has always been an awkward and messy mechanic in multiplayer because technically you're supposed to choose one person, show them the card you plan to cast, and they can choose to help you pay anywhere between zero to all of the generic mana cost. But in EDH this becomes a back and forth. I reveal a spell, who wants to pay for it, how much do you want to pay? Oh, you're paying three. Well, Billy here is willing to pay 12 to blow everything up. But Billy is already ahead. How do How about you pay four so we can blow his stuff up first? So you see this kind of discussion is a mostly inherent and unavoidable part of playing this mechanic.

[1:38] But it can be annoying and very time consuming. Now there is a perfect solution. But the problem is this perfect solution is likely different for every play group and you will have to fine tune every detail to find the sweet spot where your play group will be willing to comply with your shenanigans. And the solution I found is what I call Yumi's General Store. Yeah, just a happy, friendly cornerstone to the community, but with some slightly more sinister plans when the doors are closed. And having tested this with two different groups, I have to say this is the most unique and refreshing experience I've ever had playing EDH. And this is no exaggeration, I promise, and you will see why. Well, the first rule is that the shop is always open for as long as I'm on the battlefield and not a 3/3 elk with no abilities.

[2:22] Thanks, Jerry. And what that means is my hand will be revealed to everyone. Not just the goods, either. Every card, even the secret tricks that are not for sale. And this is so that my opponent my consumers can plan ahead on what they wish to purchase. And when my turn comes, everyone who wishes to can submit a bid, and I will choose which one to accept, usually the highest bid. Simple as that. Maybe I'll throw out a counter offer once in a while, but but we want to keep the process as simple and efficient as possible. Pick your product, pay, and get the out of my face. Now, if no one wants to buy anything, that's that's okay, too. I'll just play Magic normally, and that's pretty much the entire rule that I'm adding to this game. There will be some terms and conditions and maybe special promos once in a while, but for the most part it's pretty straightforward.

[3:02] You pick a spell, you get to target anything I don't control, and in some occasions, say if you want to pay the full cost or say seven out of nine mana for a Bogle, but sure, you can control the first two chapters. Why not? But for the most part, you want to keep the process as simple and consistent as possible. Okay, and now that the shopping guideline has been established, we are picking our inventory. And this is something we have to be very careful about because the biggest problem with Group Hug is with these constant effects that your opponents can just run away with and you have no way to shut down. So, often times you're just king making, and the rich gets richer. So, the first condition is that our cards need to be one use, like a removal, a one-off draw spell, or one little extra turn. The key is that these benefits can be handed out in a controlled fashion by me.

[3:44] So, yeah, a lot of the top picks like Howling Mine, Helm of Awakening, Font of Mythos, wow, two cards a turn. Yeah, these are not going to be in. This is not a deck you should use EDHREC for. On top of that, I want my products to have an initial impact, but also can stick around and generate some value for me so that I am not completely defenseless in these trying times. A great example of this is the planeswalkers. Elspeth, the wanderer. Now, these are board wipes. They're a bit overcosted for the effect, but our lovely customers are paying for that. The same goes with the sagas or even just big creatures with an ETB effect so that I can defend myself with them. And finally, I want big, high-impact cards. Because from my experience in the early game, people are not usually that interested in buying. They do their own stuff, but later on, you know, when things get tight, if someone runs away with the game or when someone is desperate for cards, that's when they will pay.

[4:31] Also, we're avoiding the "Why can't you pay for it yourself?" allegations, because I can't. This is nine mana. So, that sums up our thought process in picking the products. Again, these are just what I came up with. The idea is that first of all, you don't want to be king-making, and second of all, you get to keep something for yourself always. So, now we understand how the deck works. Let's take a look at our selection. First of all, we have a ton of removals, because this is what fits our criteria best. You know, these creatures that enter, deal with something, and leave behind a large body. Yeah, this is the most straightforward way to ensure that we have a win-win transaction. And some of these are more than just a large body, like Captain Marvel, like Cityscape Leveler. You can continue to use the removal effect when the dust settles. Now, will your opponent be hesitant to pay for these?

[5:12] Because, you know, the attack trigger might come at them. Yes, it's possible, so you will have to fine-tune and adjust your products based on the play style or the personality of your playgroup. And for the sagas, you want the first chapter to be the most relevant, the strongest, so your opponents would want to buy that, and you can secretly benefit from the remaining chapters. Another great one is Portal to Phyrexia. Yeah, people probably won't buy that unless they're desperate, but from my experience, there are a lot of desperate times in EDH. So, yeah, those are the removals for sale. And after that is board wipes. I do have Ugin and Farewell as kind of the panic button that we can press together. Yes, this deck I'm trying to place at bracket three because I feel like it's kind of it's able to self-adjust a little bit.

[5:54] If for some reason you are way more powerful than the table, people are not going to work with you. But if you're falling behind, people are more inclined to reach out and seek some mutual benefits. So yeah, bracket two, bracket three, I think we'll do fine in both. For the rest of the board wipes, we are playing all the ones that can keep you me around. Tragic arrogance is another example where you can adjust the cost. Like if you pay three, sure maybe you can choose some of the permanence you keep. And if you just pay one, I'll be doing a deep cleaning on the board. But that's that. Removals are boring, especially I'm I'm worried that maybe I'm playing too many board wipes, but those are the cards that really fit our restriction and game plan. So I will do more testing and see how it goes. But now we move on to the variety aisle and this is all kinds of weird wacky stuff you can sell. Ooh, is that a tentacle?

[6:35] Well, Yumi knows where this is going. But before that, I want to present you with some truly special products. Some you can even get for free. And that is stack boxes and accessories from Kakapopo TCG. They've got a lot of designs influenced by the Japanese aesthetic, which is perfect for dressing up Yumi. If these look good to you, take a look at Kakapopo TCG's website and use my discount code for 5% off. Also, you can get these deck boxes for free if you enter the giveaway by subscribing and commenting or double your chance by commenting a card that I end up adding to the deck. I'll keep a list down in the pin comment so that you can see what's been suggested, what hasn't. Anyways, back to the game. Another way that white likes to make deals is through card draw. Secret rendezvous, cut a deal, these are simple but effective.

[7:16] Also, the war in triad allows you to sell mana. Yeah, help me pay for this now and you will get an extra mana on your turn. Pendant of prosperity, this kind of goes against what I said earlier, our our policies for product selection, but this card on paper is just so amazing and I never got to use it effectively and it seems perfect here. Just give it to the struggling player and profit. Yeah, I want to try this. And it gets crazier from here. First of all, white is excellent at reanimating, but only if you're doing it also for someone else. So, something like Jailbreak, Immortal Obligation, and Dawn Bringer Reclaimer. These will sell like hotcakes. Benevolent Offering, just a nice little modal spell. We can sell the tokens, we can sell the life gain, or both if the price is right.

[7:56] Canoptek Scarab Swarm, if you really need that graveyard hated, yeah, we can do that for you. I do get a few blockers though. Archangel of Strife is a crazy one. I'm not sure here because it can backfire. I am playing a few cycle lands just in case it goes out of hand, but I can see some scenarios where this is pretty fun, so we'll try it. Yozei, the Morning Star, another reason for those cycle lands, if we really want to lock someone down, I've got you. Now, we're heading towards the top shelf with Overwhelming Yeah, this card is brutal, especially when I don't have to pay for it. And finally, we reach the top-tier, the status symbol level products. Most of my viewers don't even get to see this. Only the ones that have endured me yapping for 9 minutes. That's right, we are selling extra turns. Perch Protection, I love this card so much, and it embodies this deck perfectly.

[8:39] But now, we open the final door to our backrooms, and there she is, Emrakul. It's always Emrakul. This is actually so versatile. Together, you can control someone's turn. Or if someone's willing to pay enough, they can use the extra turn for themselves. And while we're here, Rise of the Eldrazi, why not? You pay some mana, say four or five, you can choose to blow up something and draw five cards, including the one from Yummy. And meanwhile, I refresh on top, act like I didn't just ruin someone's day, and that's it for our products. However, I can't have my entire deck be for sale. This was a difficult lesson I learned when playing with my group. At first, they were positive, thrilled even, about the idea of Yummy's shop. But as the game went on, I began hearing murmurs about what Baldur's Gate?

[9:21] Huh. What happens in Baldur's Gate? Oh, okay. Yeah, that was rough. So, I decided I can't just be one of those oblivious merchants you can just kill, rob, or even have sex with. Yummy is strictly against violence and theft. So, we need a set of cards that can protect ourselves, but also works well with our game plan. Yeah, remember our game plan of showing everything? The natural conclusion is cheap instant speed spot removals. Yeah, you know how they made a bunch of these Path to Exile side grades and downgrades? We are playing all of them. They're cheap enough so we can hold them up at all times and threaten to use them between the bigger transactions we make. And with our hand constantly revealed, hopefully these can serve as a deterrent, urging people to work with us rather than against us. And finally, we have a few ramp pieces. These are pretty important, but I don't want to go crazy with them cuz mono white already struggles when it comes to gas.

[10:05] Some choices here include the new Gleaming Splendor and Tatterdemalion. But aside from this, there is an underlying secret plan. And that is building up our mana base. Because eventually we'll have to face off against, hopefully one opponent, but sometimes multiples when they decide to turn on you. And when that happens, I want to be able to play my big spells without help multiple times a turn. And the secret to achieving that is between the selling and smiles and customer service, I'm secretly building my land base revolving around Cloudpost. We got the Wayfarer, the maps to kind of slowly assemble the pieces. I'm not playing Urza's because I find them to be far less reliable and they don't work well with copy lands. But I do have stuff like, you know, Ancient Tomb, Temple of the False God as backup.

[10:47] Now, that sums up the deck. Now, unlike most other decks, the card choices is not the focus here, but how you play it. Once again, I try to keep it simple with, you know, your hand revealed, people can bid. That's fun. But if you usually play with a familiar group, you can continue to add little rules or little twists and constantly adjust to find, again, that perfect sweet spot. For example, if you attack me, the spells cost more for you to buy. You'll lose the chance to do business with me for two turns when I reopen. Or you can just do something completely different than what I'm doing here. I'm just suggesting one of the infinite possibilities you can do. You have to figure out what is right and when you do, you're going to have the best time playing EDH. Now, trust me, I I hate group hug, but this deck has been a blast.

[11:28] The deck is pretty slow, not the most resilient, but what's great about it is if you build and play it right, it should be self-adjusting to any power level between bracket two and three. And that's a pretty big range. And unfortunately, in mono white, you kind of have to pay premium in terms of money for a lot of the utility. So, this deck isn't very budget-friendly. But yet, at the end, I'm just going to leave all of the store policies that's been working with my group for your consideration. That's all. Thank you so much for watching my video. This is Yummy with Next Level Magic. And please like and subscribe for more content, and we will see you in the next &gt;&gt; Yummy no mise arigato.

[12:20] Yummy no mise arigato.
