# Ranking the Top 10 Precon Face Commanders
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/9oV3EuzWmus
date: 2025-05-27 | views: 2,073 | likes: 52 | comments: 34 | length: 12:11 | words: 2,366 | wpm: 194.4
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 1:04 Bria; 2:24 Enya; 3:49 Zedru; 4:41 Zenia; 5:38 Bellow; 6:31 Prosper; 7:18 Henzy; 8:19 The Moplasm; 9:18 Attra; 10:10 Kalia
tags: #Commander #EDH #MTG #MagicTheGathering #PreconCommanders #Top10Commanders #MTGCommander #MagicEDH

[0:01] Hello everyone, welcome to Next Level Commander and today we're ranking the top 10 precon phase commanders of all time and number one is not a track set. Do you remember when you picked your first precon deck? For many of us it was a big deal. You can mess this one up. The commander you choose will determine whether next month's lunch money goes towards blue instance or black zombies. It's a relationship, a commitment to that face commander and it was your identity at the magic table. Later, as we dived into the expert expansions, we start building more decks. Maybe we take on an all colors challenge. We explore strategies, refine our tastes, and chase the wildest synergies. But no matter how far we branch out, the first phase commander always holds a special place in our hearts.

[0:44] It's more than just the first deck. It's how we learn to navigate the table, where we found our first victories, and how we begin shaping who we are as players. And today we will go back to where that journey began for many. Ranking the 10 best face commanders. And by best, we're not talking about power or popularity. We're looking for designs that are clever and timeless. Number 10 brings us Brea. And I'll be honest, there's definitely some personal bias here. Brea has become one of my favorite commander decks because of how well she enables aggro. And not just any aggro, white weeny aggro. This is something that was nearly impossible in commander before. White weenie, the strategy of pushing through honest, hardworking damage with reasonably sized, lowcost creatures, has always struggled in this format.

[1:29] It doesn't have the reach of red, nor the scaling of green. And for a long time, it was more or less an afterthought in commander. Just ask the players who tried building Isamaru decks in the early days. Then Brea came along and suddenly creatures like adorned pouncer, benevolent bodyguard, and even this horseman thing found a place in commander. Brina offers both reach and gas, allowing you to swarm the board early with these lowcost creatures, sometimes irresponsibly so long as you keep Brea protected. And the political element can also be explored with cards like combat calligrapher and dualist heritage. In terms of longevity and in terms of being future proof, well, every time white or black gets some pushed low to the ground creatures, Brina eats.

[2:14] For as long as White Weenies continues to thrive in 60 card magic, Brina will be their gateway into commander. So, all things considered, I believe that Brina deserves a shout in the top 10. Next up at number nine, Enya Falcon Wrath. Now, this one might be a bit controversial. I mean, it's ranked 354th on EDH with only 5,000 decks, but at this point, you're 3 minutes into the video, maybe. So, I got my viewer retention. Okay, just kidding. Don't leave. Hear me out. Enya is simple and elegant in its design and it won't be outdated for a long time. It isn't broken by any means, but it enables quite a few strategies. Madness, of course, but reanimator is a really fun one. Before Anna, Reanimator did not work in commander.

[2:54] Now, I'm not talking about recursion. I'm talking about reanimator as in you dump a fatty into the graveyard and bring it out with cards like Reanimate and Animate Dead in the early turns of the game, preferably, and take over your opponents before they could respond. The problem with reanimator in commander is that you have to get a discard spell, reanimation spell, and a fatty all in very early stages of the game to make it work. That's just a lot of effort for not so payoff. Well, this is still true, but Enya makes the setup part a lot easier and more consistent. You are guaranteed a looter from the command zone, which will give you two activations by turn four. when your opponents are still dropping their explosive vegetations and solemn similacrims you have in Ulumak and sure it's still not going to take over the game but Enya will keep the engine running feeding you backup threats and maybe eventually a living death the strategies that Enya enables strikes a nice balance between power and novelty and that's why I have her in the top 10 number eight Zedru the greathearted the first commander set had a lot of gems a lot it makes sense because they had over 20 years of design space and Zedru

[3:58] filled a massive one giving Giving your opponent's gifts that blow up in their face will never not be funny to newer players. And more experienced players will always enjoy exploring the synergies and rules interactions involved. And to this day, we are getting cards for this theme, but never a commander better than Zu. What's preventing Zedru from ranking higher is the design is a bit conservative in my opinion for a strategy that puts you through hoops after hoops. It costs seven mana to cast Zu and make your first donation and you don't reap the mediocre benefits until a turn later. I mean just look at steel kid. But still to this day 14 years after it release zedu represents an entire archetype. And whenever we get a funny donatable permanent we still think of zedu.

[4:39] And that is what I mean by timeless. Number seven we are looking at another Jessica commander. Zenia valley's voice. A bird barred from Bloomber that strikes a balance between power and charm. I mean it's a stork delivering babies that's just adorable. Just think about the baby war hounds, baby sun titans, baby aldrazi. What's not to love? But at the same time, Zenia packs a lot of power. It adds a clever twist to the traditional creature ETB decks, not only for doubling the ETB triggers, but also opens up space for playing creatures that work with themselves. And on top of that, bringing tokens into the equation also opens up the door for populating strategies. And if all that fails, Zenia is even capable of pushing through commander damage.

[5:22] So, Zenia is a perfectly competent commander for creature ETB decks, but at the same time, it opens up so much more possibility for you to play around with, and it is open-ended enough that it will be a commander constantly brought up whenever a new set releases. And that's why I have it in the top 10. For number six, we are staying in the same postal code, the same profession even, Bellow, Bard of the Brambles. Artifact and enchantment decks are common, but Bellow adds a whole new twist. You'll understand when you see a double striking berserker onslaught coming your way. Traditional artifacts and especially enchantment decks had always struggled with closing out games, often relying on locks, combos, and sometimes concessions. Bellow embracing the gr color provides the most direct and no BS solution.

[6:05] And the deck is so interesting to build. You see players ditching sky shroud claims for enroaching dragon storms. And you see as chariot driving itself and also you see the one ring players giving up on that sweet sweet value just to smack you with the indestructible ring. Also worth noting is that Bellow's ability is static and constant during your turn. So your enchantments and artifacts will trigger ETB abilities. I mean, Warstorm Surge triggering itself is just pure chaotic and mind-boggling fun, and no one is safe. Moving on to number five, and I know there are a few names you've been waiting for. Whether you like this video or write an angry comment after clicking report comes down to the second half. Although I'm fairly confident about this number five, Prosper Homebound. talking about an open-ended commander or what I like to call crossroads commanders.

[6:48] You can take dozens of different paths and Prosper will be sitting at the center handing out treasure tokens to everyone. As long as it involves Exile, it triggers. Now, see if I can even name them all. Impulse Draw, Cascade, Discover, Plot, Forell, Madness, Adventure, Suspend, Rebound, and Ragavan. Am I missing any? That's hundreds, if not thousands of cards that you can just mix and match to build your unique strategy. A future proof commander tends to get solid cards every year. And then there's Prosper, who gets entirely new mechanics every year. Must be nice. Number four, I can sense your mouse closing in on that report button. Now, if you can't find it, it's hidden on the top right on the video description section behind the three dots. I usually choose hateful or abusive content or misinformation.

[7:30] But don't do it just yet because number four, we have Henzy Toolbox. Tory creatures will always be the number one favorite card type for commander players. And like Zenia, Henzy adds a special Jundy twist to the inviting creatures over just to kill them again and again archetype. Costing just three mana, he will be online early and also has a cleverly designed ability that makes him more and more relevant late game, even changing the way you play late games. Sure, you're still playing a typical Jun Creatures deck, but with more synergistic card choices. Cards like Ojer Jasim, Primeval Herald, and G triplets are ridiculous value with Henzy on the field. Not to mention that the haste allows for a more aggressive play style. You never know when a tree shaker Chimera is coming down to take your board away.

[8:13] And all in all, Henzi is one of the most interesting creature commanders we've seen in a long while. And the community seems to agree. Now we move on to number three, the Moplasm. Talk about a simple yet timeless design with infinite possibilities. If Prosper is a crossroads commander, then the Mimoplasm is a Roma. mill reanimate ETB creatures power matters plus encounter synergies combo voltron ooze tribal this card alone covers like half of the most popular archetypes and you can mix and match to your heart's content and more importantly is fun and requires some creativity to build lord of extinction plus walking ballista death shadow plus blighted agent and currently I have a mimoplasm deck it is built as a mill deck that wins by stealing creatures and spells from opponent's graveyards and mopplasm is really the glue that holds it all together reason the mimoplasm is So high on my list is the balancing.

[9:03] This card designed 14 years ago is still perfectly balanced and costed for what it does in 2025. After a decade and a half worth of power creeping, they still couldn't make anything that mopplasms better than the mimoplasm. And I suspect this will be the case for the foreseeable future. And now number two, and this is what many of you are waiting for, Attra Prader's voice. Now, I place her here a little bit begrudgingly because in my honest opinion, the design is not interesting at all. Just keyword soup and proliferate once a turn. Not even a tap ability so you can play with the timings. And when that set of commander decks came out, I predicted them all to be duds. Let's just say I'm glad I wasn't a YouTuber back then. But what I failed to see is that the genius here isn't in a Traxxas design, but the keyword proliferate.

[9:49] It just does everything and interacts with some of the most popular card types ever released like planes walkers and sagas. Honestly, there probably isn't much I can say about Attra that you don't already know, but with 35,000 decks in just the past 2 years is evidence enough the popularity and longevity of this angel. And finally, number one, it is a tribal commander. And no, it is not the air dragon or Edgar Marov. It is Kalia of the vast. I know, I know now you're trying to figure out ways to report the same video twice, but just close your eyes and imagine being a Magic player with a commander deck and for every set, the most exciting and splashy huge mythic is going into your deck more likely than not.

[10:35] This is the life of a Calia player and it's good. From 2011 till now, Kalia went from dropping huge game ending bombs once in a while to doing every attack. And it's not just that. Kalia makes everyone better Magic players. In the early days, Kalia had a reputation of being a flat track bully, dominating newer play groups, but folding at the first sign of interaction. As a new player, at first, I complained about balance issues. It's so pushed. But once I moved past that, I started thinking strategically about how to handle the threat she posed. Over time, I learned to respect Kalia's power while keeping her under control. And it goes both ways, too. As a Calia player, you quickly learn not to rely too heavily on your commander.

[11:18] Success comes from building backup plans, ramp, reanimator strategies, or cards that serve similar roles to Kalia. You also realize you can't just jam in every cool angel, demon, and dragon you come across. The deck requires some balance and tuning. Kalia's high-risk, high reward play style makes her one of the most thrilling commanders to pilot or to go up against, and it will only get better. And that's all. Did I miss anything major? What is in your top 10? How angry are you at my list? Let me know and subscribe for future videos. And one nice thing about being a small channel is that I can read and reply to every comment and think about them. So if you have a video that you want to see in the future, let me know.

[11:59] And if it's a viable idea and something that YouTube doesn't already have 10 videos about, I will do it. The chance of me doing it is really, really high. So once again, thank you and I'll see you
