# Cloud Vs Tifa? Final Fantasy Limit Break Collector Deck Opening
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/_dEFTfKCv6c
date: 2025-06-18 | views: 673 | likes: 22 | comments: 4 | length: 40:27 | words: 6,824 | wpm: 168.8

[0:00] Hello, how are you? This is Next Level Commander. I am Jin and today we are looking at the last pre-constructed deck from Final Fantasy. We're looking through the cards and we are going to cut some cards, figure out what this deck does, and make some replacements to try to bring this deck up to bracket three. Uh, let's begin. Okay, let's take a look here. To begin with, this commander Cloud is really powerful.

[0:40] It's ridiculous. Yeah, it's so pushed as a equipment commander. Just does everything. It's got haste, so you can't really shut the deck down unless you wipe all the equipments and also it draws cards and creates treasures. Yeah, it just does everything as long as you keep him protected and equipped and he even equips himself. So, yeah, you just can't lose. All right, starting off with Cloud. This should be an equipment And then Tifa. This card I know about, the only reason I sounded a bit unsure saying this is an equipment stacks is because I know about Tifa. Tifa cares about power seven or greater. And of course, there's synergy between the two, right? We can pump the creatures with equipments.

[1:23] Yeah, so far it looks like we're going equipments big power kind of strategy. All right, cloud and tifa sid free flyer pilot equipment and vehicle spells you cast cost one less to cast during your turn has flying. It's a pilot return target equipment or vehicle from your graveyard to your hand. Yeah, we're off to a good start. This is an excellent card. Cloud's limit break. Oh, this one I've seen right in another deck maybe. I don't remember, but it's a decent removal. Destroy target type creature, destroy any number of attack creatures, and destroy all attack creatures. Yeah, it's like uh yeah, it's nice at least when your opponents are are attacking you, you can use this to to kill all the attackers, right?

[2:06] So, and also sometimes you can just use the two mana or the three mana for some decent flexible removal options. So, it's good. All right, Elena. When Elena enters, return target non-assinant historic card from your graveyard to your hand. Yeah, it's very open-ended. You can return artifacts. You can return legendary creatures. Whenever you cast a historic spell, you put a counter on Elena. It's not the strongest ability, but she can get big and uh three mana to return something relevant to this deck. It's decent. Yeah. High dagger Shinra executive. At the beginning of combat on your turn, target creature you control gets plus X plus O X number of soldiers you control.

[2:46] At the beginning of your end stop, create a number of one- one white soldier tokens. Is this good? I mean, Shinra can pump your creatures, which is nice. Sorry, I mean, High Digger. And at the same time, we are not a deck that goes wide. So, the token creation ability is useful for just holding the ground while we beat people with cloud. Yeah. So I think by himself you drop him, he will easily create three or four creatures and the next turn give something plus three plus old pump. So that's a decent synergy I'd say. Yeah, this deck is starting well. Maybe it's because the my expectations are low after seeing some of the other decks.

[3:27] But yeah, this is nice. Hella trooper two mana flying whenever this creature attacks another target attacking creature of King's flying equip abilities cost two less uh equipilities targeting this creature. So, it's like a decent. It helps give it give evasion to our commander and if our commander gets killed, it's an okay backup equipment This deck, this card is not the Yeah, I'm tempted to cut or to maybe this for now just because we don't want to equip onto this. We want to equip onto our commander. If it said equip abilities always cost two less uh for any target, then it's excellent.

[4:07] But for asis, I'll keep it in the maybe pile. Soldier military program. Three mana. The beginning of combat. If you control your commander, create a one- one soldier. And put a co counter on each of up to two soldiers I control. How many soldiers do we have? We have our commander is a soldier. High dagger makes soldiers. Hide digger is a soldier. Anyone else? Let's see. How about Tifa? Tifa is a monk. let's see. We are creating a soldier token and pumping it and our commander by one. I don't think this does enough. Yeah, I want this deck to be more focused on just equipments and big creatures and this does neither.

[4:52] Like it's kind of nice to make tokens, but like compared to hide, hide makes probably at least two or three a turn and it pumps better as a more relevant pump to our game plan. Meanwhile, this is uh does a bit bit of everything but doesn't do enough. So, well, maybe this ultimate magic. Holy permanence you control get indestructible. If this spell was cast from exile, so if you forell it, it's got for you forell and then so you pay two and then three, you get to protect your board and your life total. Yeah, I think this is a really good protection spell. It's no fair protection, but it's it's very good at what what it does. Yeah, for three mana is super reasonable.

[5:34] You don't always have to fortell it. Great card. Avalanche of sector 7. Three mana x3 manace. This powers equals the number of artifacts my opponent's controls. This is pretty big. Whenever an opponent activates an ability of an artifact they control, avalanche deals one damage to that player. Uh, this card is not super impactful, but it's easily like a 10, right, with all the treasure and soul rings running around. So, it's very aggressive and it's dealing damage to Yeah. against the treasure decks, against easily your opponents are taking two damage a turn, right? At least just because of how commander is, how reli how reliant people are on artifacts.

[6:16] So, I think this is fine. Our deck looks fairly aggressive. Yeah, this might get cut later. It's like a slightly above neutral, I'd say, for for what we want to do. Kate Sith, at the beginning of combat, scry one and then exile the top uh see the top card of your library. I may play it. When you exile that card, target creature gets plus X plus O or access the card's mana It's okay. Card advantage scribe scribe one and then exile. So you can choose to, for example, if you need a land, you can choose to play the land or you can choose to keep something or try to find something big on top to pump your creature.

[7:01] Is that good enough? Possibly. Yeah, this one is difficult. This one is difficult cuz it is card advantage in Nia cuz Nia isn't I mean green is good at drawing cards, but only a few cards only a few cards do that. So I think we'll keep it in for now because it does what we want to do. Summon Kuata. It's a seven five trample haste. This deals damage to target two target creatures for six mana. And then you can give evasion to your board and discard a card then draw two. When you discard this way, this creature deals damage equal to that card's mana value to each Um I'm a little bit worried just because our commander is equipments and we are putting so many I mean so far we haven't seen anything that cares about equipments except for that one card.

[7:50] Sid, what's his name? Yeah, all the other cards are beat down aggro, big So later, if we don't see enough equipments, we might have to cut some of these to make room for equipments just because again, the payoff for equipments is ridiculous with our commander. There's no reason to not go full But if I cut all these non-equipment, the cards that don't care about equipments, I don't think I feel like we'll have another just to where we cut so many cards. So, we'll try to keep it for now and later. I suspect in the second segment of this video, there might be some major changes just after seeing the whole deck. So, again, it's a good card.

[8:31] It's a very aggressive, a great card. So, we'll keep it for now. Ultimate Magic Meteor. right here. Seven damage to each creature. Sorcery. It's a board wipe, but if it was cast from exile, you can destroy an artifact or land for each It's decent. I mean, to to foretell it is a bit expensive, but just doing it for six mana, I get it. I think they're trying to be a little bit more make it asymmetrical where your creatures are bigger and but seven damage really doesn't kill everything, but I think it's serviceable. And the option to kill artifacts and lands is nice because if some opponent has for example a maze of we have to deal with that.

[9:14] So yeah it's good utility. Next up Vincente Vengefuler three mana menace. Whenever one or more creatures you control deal combat damage to a player put a plus one counter on it. Whenever a Vincent deals combat damage to an opponent it deals that much damage to each other opponent if his power is seven. whenever one or more creatures deals combat damage to a player. So, you have to go wide. You have to be attacking multiple opponents for Vincent to get I'm not sure how the ordering works actually. So, if you're attacking this turn, say Vincent is four power and then you attack with each uh you're attacking each opponent and you get through.

[9:57] Does this trigger because Vincent first grows to seven power? Uh, I think it still triggers. I think it still triggers. Not super not not make or break, but because we have other ways to pump instant, but yeah, looks like we are a seven power deck with a equipment sub theme. Yuthi materia hunter njutsu. When Yuthi enters can control target nontrol artifact for as long as you control Yuthi, you may attach an equipment you control to Yuthi. So you can steal something, but what are we returning to the hand? Like this doesn't have it seems like it's got equipment synergy, but not much.

[10:40] And at the same time, it doesn't have Inju doesn't really work with the rest of our deck. I guess we can just cast it for free. We don't really need to return it or return another creature, but I think it's Yeah, it's not as impactful as I'd like our cards to be. It doesn't doesn't do enough, I feel. So maybe Bugenhagen the wise elder two mana reach at the beginning of your upkeep. If you control a creature with power seven or greater draw a card it's upkeep in two mana add one mana of any color. It's not bad. It's not great. Uh mana manadors are nice I guess.

[11:20] Okay fine fine fine. Where are our equipments? Live streams blessing. Draw X cards will access the greatest power among creatures you control. Instant. Okay, this is solid. And if we cast with Forell, we gain twice X life. This is really good. Yeah, very powerful card. There are a few green cards with this effect, but this is one of the best, I think. And worth noting is that this counts greatest power of creatures I control as I cast this spell. This is a huge difference because your opponents can't just remove your creature in response to to nullify this. Excellent. Professor Hojo two mana. The first activated ability activate during your turn targets a creature uh cost two less to activate.

[12:05] So one equip is close to free, I guess. Whenever one or more creatures you control becomes target of an active ability, draw a card. Yeah, this seems good. You're in this deck again. Hopefully we have equipments. We are guaranteed a card a turn. Yeah, seems good. So, this deck is half equipments, half large creatures, which is acceptable, I guess. But I I think again with how amazing how amazingly broken Cloud is, it's better off. We're better off just doing equipments. Yeah. So, that's kind of a direction we can go later. But for now, we have to kind of keep the balance a little bit. Okay. Summoning materia. Three mana. You may look at the top card.

[12:46] Oh, it's an equipment. Nice. As long as this equipment is attached to a creature, you may cast creature spells from the top top from my library. Equip creature gets plus two plus two has vigilance and add Cost five mana to equip this. Uh, but once you equip, you get refunded one mana. I don't think this does enough. I have like off the top of my head, I can think of probably 20 better equipments than this. And plus two doesn't even get us to seven power. Yeah. So, I don't think this is good enough. It will be cool in other decks. I don't know, maybe but not in here. I last ancient. Four mana life link at the beginning of the end step.

[13:28] If you gain life this turn, return target creature from your graveyard to your hand. If I gain seven more life, seven or more life, return that card to the battlefield. And she's got lifelink and three power. We don't gain life in this deck aside from Aith. So, I guess the point is to pump Eric in uh to seven power attack and then return Yeah, a lot of things have to fall in place. So, let's see how much pump we have right so far. Right. We don't have that much pump. Yeah. One, three, I guess. Yeah. I don't think this is again a I know is a very important character in the game.

[14:11] So they have to top down her. They can't just make her care about equipments for make her, you know, force her into a seven power theme. They So they kind of danced around it. But the result is that we are not Yeah, there isn't enough synergy for ath to work well in this deck. But I know she's a key character, so if you like her, she's fine. It's a great card. But for now, we'll cut her. We'll put her in the maybe pile. Next up, Barrett, Avalanche Leader. Whenever an equipment you control enters, create a two two red rebel creature token. At the beginning of combat on your turn, attach up to one target equipment to target rebel. Who's a rebel? Oh, he's a rebel. Eh, can't attach to our commander.

[14:54] But if we have, let's say, at least 15 equipments in this deck, I think it's fine. And even if there isn't, I'm pretty sure I'm going to modify this deck to put in more equipments just because that is the most again the most powerful way to do to make this. So, he will stay in for now. Red, what is this? 13. Proud warrior vigilance trample three mana. Other modified creatures you control have vigilance and trample. See, this is how you what's it called? How you batch it, right? Modified cuz we're doing plus one counters. We're doing equipments. Why don't we have more of this wording in in this deck? I don't understand. When red three uh 13 enters, return target or or equipment from your graveyard to your hand. Again, if we have enough equipments, this is excellent.

[15:36] Great card. Sepharoth. Holy, isn't he black? So, they made a red white version of him. It's cool. Five mana 75. Whenever Sephro attacks, what you may put a cell counter on each on target creature until the end of turn and then each modified creature gets is a 75. Yeah, this is really forcing our theme here. And it's so aggressive. It's pretty good. Yeah, he doesn't have to attack because the moment he enters, our commander becomes seven power just because he's most likely equipped. And also, you can sacrifice a modified creature, return this card from your graveyard to the battlefield. So, if you put this cell counter onto something smaller and later, you can use that to recur Sephoroth.

[16:18] So, this is just again, I think they did well on this design in that it probably fits the cards flavor, but at the same time, it works really well in this deck. Unfortunately, it seems like this kind of design is difficult to do, but at least they used it on the most important character, right? So, we can keep it in. Oo, artifacts. Exciting. Conformer shuriken. Two mana equipped creature has. Whenever this creature attacks, tap target creature. And if that creature has greater power than this creature, you make up for the difference in plus one counters. So you can move this onto different creatures every turn just to pump it.

[17:00] Is that worth it? Like when you drop clouds on say turn five, you put this onto cloud for free and what's the chance of your opponent having say a seven seven for us to for us to grow off of? I think it's it's reasonable. Okay, I'll play with this to see but on paper it's And again, my my sander has been Yeah. So, we'll keep it for now. Wrecking ball arm two mana. The creature has base power and toughness 7 seven. Yeah, it can be blocked by small creatures and you can equip for three. And most of our creatures are legendary creatures.

[17:43] So, yeah, seems good. Auster command reprints. Great card. That's it for new cards. I hope they reprinted some good equipments. Honestly, I hope because so far the equipments have been not good, have been subpar. Okay, Oscar command, great card. Bastion Protector pumps our commander by two, not three, but gives it indestructible. I'd rather do this with an equipment. Um, but right now, how many cards are we cutting potentially? Let's see. We're cutting just five cards. We'll see. But I'd rather have this effect on an equipment. I know it's a powerful card, but plus two doesn't quite get us there, right?

[18:24] We need one more pump to trigger most of our creatures, including our commander. Well, actually only our commander just because this guy only cares about our commander and cloud requires seven power. So, we'll put this in the maybe bronze guardian double strike. W two other artifacts have double word two. This creature's power is equal to the number of artifacts I control. No, I don't control that many artifacts. He's a one five to begin with and then I'm guessing at the average game, the average board will have three to four artifacts. I don't think this is good enough. Like it's a cool aggressive creature, but we don't really need ward on our artifacts.

[19:06] If it was like our commander has ward maybe. Yeah. Again, this is a great card, but I can think of better cards in this deck for this deck. I mean, clever concealment. this this art. I'll just hold for a few seconds for you to for you to admire this art. Yeah, you notice one of them is Yeah, it's her cuz she's shown her Anyways, this is one of the best protection spells. Play it. Pure Steel Paladin. There you go. There you go. This is the kind of reprint you put into uh precon decks. Unfinished business. Five mana. return target creature card from your graveyard to the battlefield.

[19:46] Then return up to two aura or equipment cards from your graveyard attached to that creature. Seems good. we'll have to have at least 15 equipments in this deck. If we don't, I am Yeah, I'm adding them cuz this card these cards don't work unless we have we can reach the threshold. Vanquish the horde. Excellent board wipe. Not much to say. Usually it will cost two mana, so you will be the first to rebuild. Imagine wiping the board and then recasting cloud to smack someone. That's the kind of play you want to do. Chaos W premium removal. Although in white arguably you have better options also.

[20:28] Also green, but it's fine. It's still good. Hite Tyrant. That's a cool reprint. But this card does not work in our deck. I know you care about equipments kind of, but not really. So, no professional face breaker. Whenever one or more creatures you control deals damage to a player again, it's an excellent card. Excellent card. But where's the synergy? Oh, I guess. H. Okay, there's treasure You know what? That is good enough just because this card by itself is already a really powerful card and we have some synergy with treasures and even without our commander, we can easily beat our opponents and create what?

[21:09] Three treasures a turn. Should two to three? Not too difficult. And then we can turn that into card advantage. Something we need. Decimate. This is not a good removal just because one is a sorcery. And two, you need an artifact, a creature, an enchantment, and a land. You need those targets. And often times there's no enchantment on the field often times. And this just this is a dead card in your hand. So we will uh replace this with another another removal. Armory automaton. Whenever this creature enters or attacks, you may he can pick up all the equipments. It can pick up all the equipments. It's like a decent backup for our commander. I think it's fine.

[21:50] Would have been nice if it had haste, but yeah, it's okay. It's okay. We'll keep it for now. Champions Helm. Excellent equipment. Protects our commander and plus two is not quite enough, but still pretty good. Equip is cheap. Yeah, just a really good equipment. Conqueror's flail. Wow. Equipped creature gets plus one plus one for each color upon permanence control. Um, as long as it's attached, your opponents can't cast spells during your turn. Yeah, that's a really powerful effect just because if your opponent has removal, they're not sure who you're attacking. Maybe they'll fire it off when you attack them. The moment you equip this, they lose that opportunity.

[22:33] And you can play some like for example you can play some palm spells after you can turn a notlethal looking board state into something lethal but they can no longer respond. And this gives plus three to our commander. What a perfect equipment. Dark steel plate. Yeah, even though again this is kind of power crept by the myth cult but it's still a good card I think. Yeah, it's just great value. So I play it personally. Inspiring statuary. This is like a mana rock, but it allows all of our equipments to tap to help cast our creatures and our commander. Yeah, this is a good mana rock. Sword of the animist. Great equipment.

[23:13] That's sweet art, too. Yeah, we'll play it. Let's skip the lens for now. Okay, here you go, There you go. Zach fair one mana interest with a counter. Sacrifice it. Target creature ganks indestructible and then put the counters and equipment on Zach onto that creature. Yeah, I don't think this is impactful enough. I'd rather just play a protection spell. Like we're not putting equipments onto Zach, right? So, let's not get ourselves. So, we're just transferring a plus one counter.

[23:53] Yeah, I I'd rather have a protection spell than Barrett Wallace. Oh, these are new cards again. What's with the way they sort these decks, man? Also, what's with me noticing this on the fourth deck? I am slow. Barrett Wallace. Whenever Barrett attacks, it deals damage equal to the number of equipped creatures you control to defend to the defend defending player. So normally this is what two damage three damage max to one player. This is not impactful enough. Even if this was to each opponent, I wouldn't play it. So yeah, this card is just weak.

[24:34] Dispatch, no. There are better removals. We don't want to play conditional removals. Secret rendevous. You and target opponent each draw three cards. We are pretty desperate for card draw. So I'd say this is okay. You can help right? Or you let them draw three cards and you kill them. So, this is fine. Gen Nia, there are I mean, we are a big big creature deck, so there are better draw spells that care about creatures power and toughness. So, I don't want to play this. Okay, I don't want to play this cuz we we have more synergistic ways to draw cards to refill our hand.

[25:15] And this is not it. Furious Rice at the beginning of your end step. If you control a creature with power four greater, exile the top card. You may play that card until you exile another card. It's not good. We can just play uh that green green enchantment that draws cards whenever you have a large creature. And this is Yeah, this is far weaker. I think it's called Garuk something. I'll put it on the screen, but compare just compare the two, right? It's not close. Vendal blast sure is an excellent removal. Cultivate. Good. Ramp spell It's okay. It's okay. Nature slower. Ramp is fine. Ramp. Yeah. Ramp. Ramp.

[25:56] Equipment. Trample. Lifelink. Plus two. Lifelink is good. We do need lifelink. Yeah, not the best equipment, but it's passable. Arcing signate. Cool. Colossus hammer. This is like the payoff card for our clouds free equipility. So, we definitely play it. It's hilarious. It doesn't do anything when you don't have cloud, but it's cool. If scope, whenever it attacks, look at the top card of his land, you put it into play. This is so low impact. We are not going to play this. Heroes play is good because you can always play this first and then yeah, it automatically equips the cloud and then you can equip another equipment and it's seven power, right?

[26:38] Plus three plus two. So, this one has good synergy. Heroes heirloom plus two plus one is gets trample and haste but cloud already has haste so it just gets trample and plus two isn't enough so again this is a really low impact carding grease sure protection and also because we get to move it around yeah so it's we have multiple creatures this isn't going to stop us from equipping so it's fine mask of memory whenever equip creature deals damage to a player you may draw two Yeah. Are we desperate for card draw? I guess we're pretty desperate. Are there no better draw spells?

[27:20] It's fine. We'll keep it for now. Uh the draw two discard one is nice. Skull Clamp. Not the not at its best in this deck, but still probably one of the better equipments. It's fine. Soul ring. Eh, it's okay. Trailblazers blazers boots. Like, it sounds fancy, but all this is is unblockable. We have way better cards than this. And now we're on to the lands. Once again, the lands should be literally the same with no synergy Basic, basic, basic. Okay, this one is new. Bonders Enclave. It's nice. It's decent.

[28:05] scavenger ground. Oh, yeah. This one is different. This is a great land. Slayer stronghold. Haste, vigilance, plus two plus. Spire of Industry. Why do we need this? I mean, it's not it's never terrible, but okay. It's fine. It's fine. Yeah, we're going to leave the land base untouched, but everything else we will see. And here are the tokens. Soldier. Bunch of soldiers. Oh, Forell. That's cool. That's nice. What's on the back? Rebel and soldiers. Forell. Sweet. Let's see how many cards are in our maybe pile here.

[28:47] 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17. More than I thought. And we're going to open this pack and move on to upgrading our deck. Let's see what we get. Premise and Mog Mughal Warrior. Awesome. See you soon. Okay, now we have the pile. So, we cut we end up cutting 17 cards, mostly ones that are not impactful enough or just uh don't have much synergy with the deck as usual. So, for the deck itself, we have 37 Lens.

[29:27] Once again, we don't touch these. Yeah, they're fine. And in terms of the core of the deck, it looks like we've got two decks. We have the Cloud deck, which is equipment focused, and the Tifa deck, which is seven power, the seven power theme. There is some synergy, but they don't mix too well with each other. And I've decided to focus on the cloud theme with the cards. I'm adding equipments. Yeah, equipment synergy just because, you know, Cloud is our commander, so that makes a huge difference. But the Tifa Tifa pile can also work in here. It's not it's not terrible. I ideally I will slowly slowly face out this pile, but it's I I think the deck will function just fine.

[30:11] So, uh outside of this, we have draw spells, just two of these. But to be fair, cloud does draw cards. So, we are okay here. and ramp spells. We got one, two, three, four, five, six ramp spells. Yes, six is okay. Once again, cloud does everything. Cloud is draw cloud also reps. So, you can you will see that I put in a lot of protection spells just to make sure that cloud happens because as long as cloud happens, everything is turned on. Okay, next up, some Yeah, here are some protection spells, two of them. I added a lot more. And here are some removals and board wipes. So, we've got here are the board wipes. Oh, some glare. Yeah, for wipes and some and three removals.

[30:54] It's not quite enough. I added I think one or two because again I want to focus on what this deck wants to do, which is to smack people. It's like if they're doing broken stuff, just try to kill them. Yeah. So, this is kind of interesting. So, I I I didn't go too deep onto removals. All right. So, let's take a look at the cards added. First of all, our equipments and equipment synergies. The first one is actually a meta rock, but this is a sweet meta rock for any equipment deck. It's a two drop meta rock, which is already quite good, but it also turns into an equipment that gives conveniently plus three. So, what happens is actually you can just drop cloud. This will turn into an equipment and I believe it can just equip and you can immediately smack for smack for uh seven, right?

[31:42] You can even tap this to cast cloud and then equipment on the cloud. you will have a tapped equipment, but it doesn't matter. So, this is a a sweet card. I think a lot of people miss this card. Okay, next up, a Myith my coat. Yeah, just a three mana. It's like a pro protection spell kind of, but three mana straight up indestructible is too much value to pass up on. The next one, locks on Warhammer. We need the plus three. We need the trample and lifelink is also important because our deck is kind of, you know, we are voltrony. We have usually one or two creatures doing and stuff and we need ways to kind of raise people to defend ourselves and if we can't we need to link we need to gain life.

[32:22] So lock down Warhammer is sweet. Cauldra complete. This one is to take advantage of Cloud's free equip. Yeah. Equip seven doesn't matter. We drop Cloud and this is already on. And another reason is because Cloud doesn't just care about himself. He cares about all equipped creatures. So living weapon is really powerful here because you can just drop Kra smack people and you will get the you will get the draw out of the draw you will get the yeah the draw trigger extra draw trigger which is sweet. Uh next up black blade reforged. I think it's the most efficient power pump equipment. Yeah, two mana and then three to equip.

[33:03] You can get easily plus seven in the mid game, maybe more. Yeah, this is how you finish people sometimes. And the swords are a lot of them are really good, but they are quite expensive. So, I just picked the best one. Sword defeats the famine. Getting your lens untapped is just it's just amazing. Yeah, cuz usually on the turn you're paying three and then two to equip an equipment. That's like half your turn or maybe all your turn gone. But once you connect, you can have another go at casting spells, right? So, you don't you don't you get both. You get the equipment and you get to play things, play other things. And also this protection is decent and it's relevant for evasion.

[33:46] You can get through to some players with this sword. So, it's nice. And lizard blades. This is one of the best cards you can play in an equipment deck. Not be not just because it gives double strike. is probably the most efficient double strike provider, but also is a creature with double strike, which is excellent for carrying equipments as a backup. Yeah. So, wizard blades, it's excellent. Ember cleave, double strike, evasion, and you can really surprise people with the flash ability. Yeah. And uh auto equip, right? So, sure it seems expensive, but combine that with the cost reduction, you will it will be reduced by at least one, right?

[34:26] sometimes two, three, and the equip is free. This is so efficient and can really blow people out. Next up is Cigardless Aid. I couldn't find a regular version, but this is called Cigardless Aid. Uh it's yeah, you can cast equipments with flash and they will attach. They will attach automatically. What's amazing about this is a lot of the uh protection ones like indestructible, shroud, you can use them as protection spells now. You can surprise people. They try to remove your stuff. You cast it and the next turn you can smack with that equipment. Sweet. And forge a new. This one is equipment recursion. You get a one equipment back and but what's even better is you can uh well one equip at instant speed on your turn and you can also pay zero for the first equip.

[35:17] So what you can do is you can for example smack with two creatures and if they block one of them you can move the equipment onto the other. Yeah, you can do some tricks like that. And also if they try to remove your stuff on your turn, you can say if you have lightning griefs, your entire board has shroud. They're they're all protected. So this is a lot of utility, not just for the recursion. Yep. And that's the cloud pile. This is the cloud pile. It's the cloud deck. Next up, protection spell. Once again, I am doing protection, a lot of protection because Cloud does so much, right? You keep him alive, he will he will reward you handsomely. So, first one is actually kind of unconventional, but I'm looking at it uh for the cycling ability.

[36:01] It's three mana to cycle, but when you cycle this card, put two plus one plus one counters on up to one target creature or vehicle against trample and indestructible to the end of turn. So, it's like kind of evasion, but more importantly, indestructible protection and you draw a card, right? That's super important. Sure, it's three mana, a bit expensive, but you get you draw a card and you get to protect your creature pretty well. And more importantly, it's called Agna. Agnosaur Rex. It's a creature, right? So, it's got two modes. The other mode is also really powerful. It's a five mana 88 trample, right? That's just so efficient and it fits it fits the deck's theme. It fits the Tifa theme as well.

[36:42] So, just great synergy all around. Next up, Borl's Charm. It is not the strongest protection spell. It's good because you you want to protect your all your permanence. Sometimes they board, they kill your your equipments. That's the hardest part to rebuild. Killing cloud is okay cuz he's got haste, right? You just cast him and you're you're already smacking again. He pick up an equipment. Yeah, you don't skip a beat. But if they blow up your equipments, then you are slowed down by a few turns. But here with borrow borrow is protecting everything. But what's the reason I picked this over other protection spells is the option to give double strike. Yeah, cuz with what cloud is doing here, double strike sometimes means just killing a player and out of nowhere.

[37:26] So it's a pretty versatile threat. You can go on the defense or offense with it. Shelter for protection spells. In decks like these, I prefer protection from color. This protects you from all spot removals. Draws you a card, but in a pinch, it can serve as almost a evasion spell. Yeah, if your opponents are kind of mono color or even just two colors, sometimes they just have creatures of a single color or they leave two blockers up, they're both black, for example. Yeah, this will really catch them off Shelter protection for black. you can swing, get your value, sometimes kill someone. Yeah, again this I like cards that can be used both offensively and defensively and shelter is one of them.

[38:10] Next up, SK uh snake skinville for the versatility. Also, the pump because a lot of our equipments give plus two and just that plus one plus one counter can make a huge difference. It can be the difference between cloud triggering or not. So, it's just a efficient simple hex proof and plus one plus one. These are our protection spells to make up a total of let's see six. Yeah. Next up, just one more removal because this one is good just because it is already one of the best boards. But in our deck, sometimes we give Cloud Protection from red, sometimes we give it indestructible. And this is like an evasion spell. You can wipe the board and then uh attack someone for free basically.

[38:53] So we are adding this to the boardw pile. Again, we're not going too heavy on board wipes and uh removals. We're just depending on cloud to get the job done. And we do need a little more more draw aside from cloud. So again, risk expertise. This is one of my favorite draw spells in a big creatures deck. In this deck, you will easily draw six to eight and you get a spell for free. So again, you're not you're tapping out kind of paying a lot of mana for this draw spell, but at the same time, you're not. That's what's nice about this card. You still get to cast And lastly, finisher full throttle. This is the best extra combat spell. You can with this you can easily kill one sometimes two opponents out of nowhere.

[39:34] Yeah, three combat faces. Imagine getting cloud trigger on all three of them. Yeah, you are you are just way ahead as soon as you get this. We don't want too many of these. Like if you if it turns out that you you feel like you're often waiting for this card, then put in more. There are some other decent ones, but this one is the best one. And in a deck that is more aggressive, we need finishes like this. We can just be predictable and we can't let the opponent count down. I've got three turns. I've got two turns. I've got one turn left. No, you need to surprise them with some cards like this. So, this is the deck for Cloud. And yeah, we finished all four Final Fantasy precon decks.

[40:15] Thanks again for joining me. Please like and subscribe and let me know if you like this kind of content. Should I do this for the next set of pre-cuts? And that's all. I'll see you soon.
