# Borrowed Voltron with Loki, God of Lies | Marvel Super Heroes Deck Tech
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/afdFjT8QQ8w
date: 2026-06-17 | views: 4,161 | likes: 168 | comments: 55 | length: 11:35 | words: 2,696 | wpm: 232.9
tags: Loki, Marvel Super Heroes, EDH, Commander, MTG, Magic the Gathering, Deck Tech, Theft, Voltron

[0:00] Voltron is about unity, about assembling parts into something greater, but who said all the parts have to be yours? You provide the commander, I'll provide the pump and evasion, and together we can take down our common opponents. Terms and conditions apply. Alliance valid until the other two players are eliminated. After that, all bets are off. Side effects may include salt and lifelong trust issues. Hello, this is Chin with Next Level Commander. Honestly, with the new Universes Beyond designs, I haven't been entirely happy with their flavor and top-down designs. Like with some of these cards, I'm not sure how much thought they put into matching the characters and the art and flavor and all that. But the one they did nail is this Loki, God of Lies. "Whenever you cast a spell that targets only a single creature, gain control of that creature until the end of turn. If it's your turn, untap that creature and it gains haste until the end of turn." Every targeted spell becomes temporary theft.

[0:42] Even with the limitation of mono-red, there's so much you can do with this ability. And it's more than just theft. The deeper I dug into the interactions, the more I was amused, and I'm sure you will be as well. Let's take a look. Well, starting off, we need targeting spells, and we narrowed it down to a few utilities that we prioritized over others. To begin with, we have card draw. Being able to cantrip is just massive. It means we can just use it for value, steal some attack triggers, link some life, get a blocker at instant speed, so our opponents know that's something they will have to play around for the rest of the game. Sticky Fingers is a really interesting one I found. With that, we get to steal something, attack with the evasion, get a treasure, and then with a side goblin, we can cash in on that card immediately, all for one mana. And another interesting one is Enrage Epiphany.

[1:23] Deals X damage, yada yada, that part is not relevant. The relevant part is we can use zero for X and it still targets something. We steal it, we attack, and then we sacrifice it. It still triggers the next part of the ability, which allows us to dig for another card to use. I'm also looking at the impulse draw effects. Now, these are not amazing, but the pump is something we need. Cuz if you think I was joking, I wasn't. Our win condition is actually sending opponents' commanders into themselves. It's not the only plan, but it's the funniest and probably the most efficient given the tools we have. I mean, if our table looks like this, I will have to come up with something else. Maybe Loki will have to do it himself, but usually not. So, the pump spells. The aforementioned Haze Magic and Blazing crescendo, also titan strength and cunning maneuver. The most interesting one here is siege smash. It's got split second.

[2:03] It might not seem obvious, but playing with this a few times you will see how relevant split second is when attached to an instant speed stealing spell. But these are just warm up. Sometimes you need more, but ideally we want to kill one opponent per attack. And that's made possible by these doubling spells. And they all come with something interesting. Can trip, cycling, and ball cup is sweet. You can use it twice. So when you have enough mana, this card alone can come pretty close to one shotting an opponent. And finally, spectacular showdown is pretty average in its base form, but the overload ability is ridiculous. With the right board state, you will just watch your opponents kill each other. If you think of Loki as a video game character, spectacular showdown would be the ultimate. And aside from the aforementioned, there's one last category that we value is reusability.

[2:44] Crown of flames, key to fire breathing, and escape velocity. These cards are amazing because they're a bit expensive in different ways, but once you draw them, you know you will have gas for the rest of the game. You will always have something to do. Okay, so now we established that we have lots of targeting spells and we can steal things, sorcery speed, instant speed, whenever. And also keep in mind that the ability does untap the creature. So in a pinch, we can use these spells to untap something. And that brings us to the utilities package. There's some pretty spicy stuff here starting with long shot. Now this might be the most boring one, but this card is broken. I mean, look at this. It's non-creature spells. So that includes artifacts, mana rocks, everything. These auras that we can loop, key to fire breathing, crown of flames.

[3:25] That's a lot of damage. And even just with regular spell casting, it definitely adds up. And we are just getting started. Next up we have Kiki-Jiki, Mirror Breaker. Now imagine this and a handful of targeting spells. Stealing this, this, and this now turns into taking the best thing on board and copying it. And not just once, cuz every time we target Kiki-Jiki, it will untap. Or we can just skip the middleman and Splinter Twin. Doesn't say enchant creature you control, so you can target something, get it now, and make as many copies as you have targeting spells in your hand. Rionya does something similar. Cast a few spells, steal the creatures, make copies of the biggest one. That That's a game-winning turn, right? And finally, Karark, the Thumbless. That works in a lot of decks, and it does work here cuz Loki only cares about targeting, not resolving.

[4:07] So, potentially, every spell we can use twice or more. You can turn a hand with three spells into insurrection, basically. And finally, a Sack Outlet and Goblin Bombardment open to turn the steal into permanent removal. Okay, so those are some utilities synergies. But to finish the game, we also have some pretty cool interactions. Breath of Fury is one of my favorite cards that I never get to play. Now, it's not perfect here because we can't target another creature. We have to target something we stole. But then, we can steal a few more creatures and move Breath of Fury onto each of them for an extra combat until the creatures or our opponents are all dead. That's pretty hardcore. Grim Reaper's Sprint is kind of similar. Often times, it only costs two mana, but what we get to do is steal some things, attack, and then cast this to steal one more creature to pump my entire board and get another combat.

[4:51] A different way to win the game is with these two enchantments. Let's take a look at Elemental Mastery. We steal the biggest creature on board, tap it for a bunch of tokens. Now, use a pump spell to untap it, tap for more tokens again and again. We can swarm our opponents. Or similarly, Burning Anger. Take the biggest creature on board, shoot someone for nine damage, and then 18, and after that, another 21. I know these two are not the most efficient, but it's going to be so fun to do. What is efficient, though? Jeska, Thrice Reborn. Find the right window, use a pump spell to steal a commander, and Jeska Someone will be dead. Insurrection is kind of boring, but it does make sense and fits our deck well. And of course, if you've seen my other videos, you know what's coming. Giggling Skitterspike.

[5:32] Usually, you want to drop it and then monsters it and then chain a bunch of target spells onto it. But with Loki, you can also just give it haste with any targeting spell to get both a target trigger and an attack trigger immediately. And that rounds out the spice. We do need some generic utility. Like again, card draw will be difficult in mono red, so we have to do something about that. Skullclamp is easy. We steal a creature, we clamp it, we attack and then sacrifice. That seems perfect in this deck. Calling Dayus is a bit of a pet card, but it's done well every time I played it, so it seems fine here. Humble Defector is super interesting. There's a lot of things you can do with this. You can either just do it the regular way, you know, pass it to someone, hopefully they pass it back. Now, if they don't, you can always steal it on your turn, draw two cards and pass it to another person, or just a simple tap and sacrifice.

[6:15] That's okay. Or just keep targeting it, draw two, draw two, draw two, turn every target spell in your hand into pot of greed. That seems okay. I'm usually very careful with playing wheels because it can often help your opponents if they do deplete their hands fast or they use their graveyards. But here it kind of makes sense cuz you want your opponents to drop things that for you to steal. And if they don't, they lose the cards. And again, mono red, yeah, again, I I want better options, but right now I think we have to try these. For ramp, we have the generic package. I wonder what the red infinity stone does. These red mana rocks are interesting. Low key scepter makes a lot of sense here, and tablet of discovery is actually very pushed. The fact that you can play anything milled, including lands, is really good. We are kind of short on sac outlets. We're relying on our lands a lot, so we have the world map and expedition map.

[6:59] Throne of Eldraine makes sense here, and a little bit spicier is the chromatic orrery. This is super greedy, but when it works, it's sweet. Magical Christmas land here is to steal a three-color or a five-color commander and draw a bunch of cards. That's the dream. Among the storm mana enablers, I chose Urza because it counts every spell. And the backside is very underrated. This card is just really good. I mean, she provides mana when we have cards and provides cards when we don't. Finally, Mana Geyser I'm a bit iffy about. Sure, you always remember it making 15, 20 mana, but most of the time it's a ritual for five, so it turns five mana into 10, which is still decent. The reason I included is because sure, we have our little tricks, our combat shenanigans, but to win the game, we will need those big turns and Man-o'-War Geyser powers that.

[7:44] Okay, and the deck is very meta-dependent, but unfortunately, we don't have too much room for protection, so this might be a potential risk, but red doesn't have too many good options to begin with. We have Deflecting Swat, Redirect Lightning, Lightning Greaves, and then we had to get creative. For example, Silver Shroud Costume. Yeah, it's a great protection spell, but also sometimes it will be an evasion when we steal a commander. Now, this doesn't steal the commander itself, but you can just drop it onto the creature and now it's unblockable. Just make sure you get the protection spells onto the creature before shroud kicks in. Finally, Veilstone Amulet. Every time I cast a spell, my creatures get hexproof. Yeah, so all of our targeting spells, all of our instants become protection spells. Oh, yeah, and removals. We don't have too much room, but we There will be board states where we cannot deal with simply by stealing things, so we have a few panic buttons.

[8:28] My favorite one here though is Wild Magic Search cuz with this, if you target a creature, by the time it dies, it will be stolen onto your side. So, it dies, then you're the person who flips. And we do have a pretty solid creature collection, so every one of those is worth flipping into. Okay, and that's all of our nonlands. For lands, we need sack outlets. Yeah, every single sack outlet we can find. The most interesting one here is City of Shadows. It's It's just kind of fun. I'm not sure if it's good. Because first of all, it doesn't tap for mana. You need to sack something, so if you draw it in the early game, it's not really a land. And also, it exhausts the creature immediately, so no Skull Clamp triggers, no dying triggers. So, be careful with that, but it's It's got potential, right? You sack a few times, now it's tapping for three mana. Aside from that, Arcane Lighthouse is very important here because if your opponent's commander is big and powerful, it's likely protected.

[9:15] The lighthouse helps us get around that. The MDFCs are always good, and these ones target. Oh, and Witch's Clinic because we are Voltron-ing other people's commanders, and this works on any commander. So, we can dream of the magical Christmas land. And just some other miscellaneous utility, graveyard hate, protection, token making, oh, and a backup win condition. Not a super reliable one cuz we don't pump that heavily, unlike a lot of our other decks. So, but it is nice to have. And that's the deck. So, the game plan is to play conservative early. Low key is really good at controlling combat. With this and some mana up, your opponents are usually pretty scared to attack into you. They have to look at what's on the board. Interestingly, it doesn't untap the creature if it's not your turn. So, the defense play only works if there are untapped large creatures on the board.

[9:57] So, keep that in mind. But, you also have a lot of combat tricks. So, Low Key can get to work and do some defending, I guess. And in the midgame, we can do our shenanigans. We can have big turns, take away blockers, attack for a bunch. And that's where we can have these mind-blowing plays. The deck is not explosive. It's pretty slow. It's got a decent amount of ramp, but we don't have too much to do in the early game. I mean, we can defend ourselves kind of okay, but we won't be posing a threat anytime soon. The deck is also not super resilient. The biggest weakness is that we do rely on the commander, but we don't have a lot of protection for him. So, we're leaving some of that to fate. And like a typical red deck, we burn bright, but we also don't have the best battery life. Because of that, it's not an easy deck to play. Figuring out the interactions and synergies is just one thing, but also we have to use our resources cleverly, find the right timing for everything.

[10:41] And it's not super cheap to build because in monocolor, especially mono red, that's where the budget can make a big difference. Oh, boy, this deck is looking like crap. Now, I got to be transparent. But, maybe I should add a fun category for for my decks. Like this deck is a blast to play, and that's kind of why I'm building it. But then, every deck I make, I'm going to rate extra fun, so no point doing that. But, this deck will be fun, I promise. Give it a shot. Maybe proxy it first. And this deck should be a bracket two. I don't think it's going to get there in bracket I mean, in bracket three, you can steal wins, of course, but just overall, the speed, the consistency, I don't think it's good enough for bracket three, but again, your mileage may vary. And that's the video. If you like what I'm doing, please check out my sponsor, and use my affiliate link affil- No, I don't have a link.

[11:27] Affiliate code, yes. Levels, all caps, for some sweet magic accessories. Either way, I will see you in the next video.
