# Using Planeswalkers in EDH (in 2026)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/arRrJACkRng
date: 2026-05-21 | views: 14,349 | likes: 359 | comments: 177 | length: 8:30 | words: 1,912 | wpm: 225.1
tags: EDH, MTG, Planeswalkers, Commander, Magic the Gathering

[0:00] Planeswalkers are crap in EDH. This seems to be a common belief and yeah, it's reasonable cuz planeswalkers are hype in other formats, but when it carries over to multiplayer, people realize they're pretty overrated. And for some reason, they're not printing multiplayer-oriented walkers. I mean, these abilities can easily be a minus two or a plus one, but why are they not making planeswalkers that are strong for multiplayer like they do for sagas? Let me know what you think. But at this point, we've reached the other end of the spectrum, I feel, where people are just neglecting the walkers when they deck build. Yeah, they get beat up as soon as they come down usually, and they're so complex now, I can't even remember which one does what. Yeah, I feel like when people build decks, there's like a mental shortcut where they remember certain iconic cards. But for most people, I feel that shortcut for planeswalkers is just ignoring them.

[0:43] So today, I'll do the work for you. I went through over 300 legal planeswalkers for Commander to find eight that can be quite good and very underrated in the format. Now, this is more than just a list, but hopefully will give you some insight on how to evaluate planeswalkers and consider which ones are suitable for which decks. So, let's begin. We start with pretty decent choices, but end with walkers that I generally believe are bombs that people are neglecting. Starting with Nahiri, the Unforgiving. One of the biggest traps for evaluating planeswalkers is looking at their ults like at all. This is one of the massive reasons why people will do what they can to take them out. But then, there are bombs like our Nahiri over here. What do you mean working hard and depleting my loyalty? Best I can do is zero.

[1:24] Minimum wage, minimum effort vibes here. But because of that, just like the OG Garruk, your opponent sometimes will just look at her and leave her be. And honestly, that's a very relevant hidden upside for planeswalkers in Commander. Now, let's look at her abilities. Usually, I treat planeswalkers like they are spells, so I evaluate based on what I can do immediately after dropping them. For Nahiri, the most relevant one here is zero. Now, the equipment part is a bit of a trap. Why would you want to reanimate an equipment for one turn and then you have to pay the equip cost? No. But getting a creature back is actually super relevant. You can bring back a three drop or a five drop, give it haste, and you know, get all the ETB, get to attack, and that seems really good. The flexibility here is also excellent. Being able to cast her for three mana means that if the coast is clear, you can drop her early and get some value with the plus one.

[2:07] Just keep looting, and eventually animate something big. I don't think she's great in equipment decks, but she fits really well in the new Lorehold strategies that cares about graveyard and creatures. I imagine she can be quite good in decks like Jared and ones that work with graveyard like Dahada and Selvala. Might be surprisingly decent. All right, next up. Now, I know I said the alt is a trap, but I'm a man of constantly lowering standards, especially for Nissa. Nissa, Vital Force has a special place in my heart because I've seen her alt more than almost any other planeswalker. Because she comes down, makes a sizable blocker, and if you time it right, she can alt almost reliably. And in a land stack, this alt will win you the game. But beyond land stack, just any Simic value deck, any deck that ramps a lot, or decks that are a bit short on card draw like my Rafiq Mikky deck, especially if it can control the board, can make good use of this planeswalker.

[2:56] Now, the minus three ability is not great. You can use it in a pinch, but but to get a permanent back to your hand for five mana, because once you minus three, you have to plus one, and the plus one is not super useful for the most part. I don't think it's a great deal. So, I would only play Nissa if you want a high-risk, high-reward kind of card. I mean, the reward is huge, so I would definitely try this in some of my decks. Next up, Ob Nixilis, the Adversary. Now, this is one of the most unique planeswalkers ever printed, and is actually quite difficult to evaluate cuz it can make copies of itself, and then you can activate it twice. And yeah, what exactly is this? But I think for this card, I have a very specific home. It's decks that can alt Ob Nixilis immediately. Yeah, decks that can reliably make large creatures, decks like Greven, Ozai, or even Sorin.

[3:40] In these decks without green, Ob Nixilis is almost like a Momentous Fall with lots of upside. I mean, you're left with two planeswalkers ticking up, ticking down, making devils, just being annoying in general. Or even if your commander is just a power, take a look. A mix list might also be a decent fit. And next up we have Dack Fayden, Shadow Slayer. Yeah, they managed to make a planeswalker that scales with the game. This is a nice design, but they had to be really careful with the abilities. But they're still pretty decent. So by turn three this becomes a removal, not amazing, but serviceable. And it gets to straight up reanimate an artifact later on in the game, and that's usually when you need this effect. And surprisingly, we don't actually have that many refurbish effects in magic. So if your deck wants it, this is a solid choice. So yeah, you either get a removal or a cost cheating reanimation.

[4:20] And often times Dack Fayden can even stick around for some surveilling, or at least absorb some damage. This is a solid choice for pretty much any deck that involves artifacts, like Urza or Sharuum. According to EDHREC, he's only in 10% of Sharuum decks. I think this number should be higher. Next up is Jeska, Thrice Reborn. A lot of people are distracted by it being able to be a commander, and also maybe entering with very few counters, but again, this is not a planeswalker. See this as a sorcery three mana give target creature triple strike. How many of those are in Zero. Okay, I guess something like seize the day is close, but look at how much mana this costs. Seven. Meanwhile, Jeska allows you to just boom someone out of nowhere. I mean, if your commander has red and has seven power, this is just an alternative kill condition.

[5:02] Even if beating people up isn't your plan A. Imagine Jeska with the Titanic. Holy. And another sweet use is in decks like Slicer or Elaxious, because the damage tripling effect lasts until your next turn. So yeah, double strike people might see coming, but triple strike, let's just say I die to it a lot. And apologies for the sudden voice change. Um, I I didn't finish recording yesterday, and today I woke up with a So, I mean, what else am I going to do? I I'm not going to work. So, I guess the top three will sound a bit different. Yeah, and they are special, and these are some sweet planeswalkers. Some of my favorites, alongside Ugin, of course. Number three, we have Teferi, Master of Time. Now, this one's probably not a surprise.

[5:43] It's really strong, and it's got this multiplayer oriented mechanic. But again, 1.5% of decks, I don't think that's a good indication of how strong this card is. Now, this is a card that can actually snowball in multiplayer. I think a lot of people are misunderstanding this one, expecting it to protect itself with the minus three ability, but that's not reliable enough. However, if your deck has some kind of control elements, is able to support Teferi with, say, removals or even just solid blockers, this can cause a lot of headache for your opponents. I guess there's some discussion about the ultimate is taking two extra turns, so bracket four, but I mean, it's a planeswalker ultimate. I feel like a lot of the ultimates of planeswalkers would be game winning, even more than this one.

[6:26] So, I do think planeswalker ultimates should be treated a bit differently in this discussion. But, personally, when I play Teferi, I just alternate between the plus one and minus three most of the time, and it's more than enough value for four mana. And number two, people know about this card, but it's still criminally underplayed. It is the Eternal Wanderer. It is one of my personal favorites. I just do think tragic arrogance type board wipes should be used more. Only the ones where you get to choose, and this is the case with the Eternal Wanderer. So, again, this is a planeswalker that is kind of close to a sorcery, the minus four ability. Now, I understand why they kind of avoid doing this, I guess for identity issues, but when they do, these walkers are the ones that are most playable, I find. In this case, paying six mana is a little bit expensive for this effect, but as long as you're in the right deck, the Eternal Wanderer will most likely stick around and generate value.

[7:08] I mean, the token is also one of the best tokens a planeswalker can possibly make. Now, like Teferi, the decks she can go into is a bit narrower, but any deck with a powerful, dominant commander can consider this. Especially ETP decks or Voltron decks that can synergize with her top two abilities. And finally, we have number one, and it's been my top planeswalker choice ever since its release 10 years ago, Dack Fayden. Dack, 20,000 decks. Worn Powerstone, 200,000 decks. Now, I know there's a color limitation thing, but that's more like a reminder that you should be playing it anyway. But, yeah, look at these two cards. Squint. They are basically the same card. Dack Fayden has one job, to steal Sol Rings. All of them. And dropping this on turn three against someone with a Sol Ring start is just brutal.

[7:49] And of course there's the slim possibility that nobody has a Sol Ring by turn three. And when that happens, nobody has a head start, you can just drop Dack Fayden and get value. Three mana planeswalkers are excellent if they can scale with the game and Dack Fayden absolutely can. Most boards will have plenty of artifacts to steal. And that's what I think a playable planeswalker should be in Commander. It's nothing flashy, no broken ultimate, but just something with a solid ability to serve as the floor situation and lots of potential upsides. Okay, and that's all of my picks. I'm sure I've missed some. Which planeswalkers are surprisingly good in your deck? Please let me know. And also check out my affiliate link Kakapopo TCG for excellent, excellent, accessories. And if you do, use my discount code levels, all caps. And I'll see you in the next video.
