# We FINALLY Solved the Nephilim
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/BC_TiC2tUek
date: 2026-08-21 | views: 22,469 | likes: 685 | comments: 356 | length: 11:08 | words: 2,444 | wpm: 219.8
tags: MTG, EDH, Commander, MAgic the Gathering, Nephilim, 5 clor, Magic the Gathering, Mystery Commander

[0:00] Hello, this is Jim with Next Level Commander and I am proud to announce to you that we solved Nephilim. Now, when I say it's big, it's big. You know me, I never do click-baity title. You know me, I don't usually do Okay, fine. I don't always do click-baity titles, but for this list, I'm genuinely excited and you will see why. We made a cohesive deck that actually involves all of the Nephilim. But, this is something magic player has been waiting for ever since Ravnica, the OG Ravnica, and it's been one of the biggest what-ifs in magic's design history. These cool, flavorful four-colored like back then there were no four-color commanders and these were four-color and in the story they're ancient gods of Ravnica and they're just creatures.

[0:42] So, magic players have been asking for some kind of fix for decades. But, as Oscar Wilde have brilliantly said, there are only two tragedies in life. One is not getting what you want and the other is getting it. How does this guy know magic players so well? But, because of the high expectation and because of how difficult it is to contain these Nephilim, they all do different things. When the Nephilim Epical was spoiled, people were mostly disappointed. The general opinion was mostly, "Yeah, we're glad it's awesome. This is a thing, but we're probably not going to build it cuz there's not much to do." And I was of the same. I really wanted this to work and I looked at it over and over, even drafting up lists, but it just is boring and inconsistent. Yeah, the best way to do it is to have a secret commander and the most interesting Nephilim, Ink-Treader.

[1:27] But, then this isn't really a Nephilim deck, it's just a Spousing deck and there are other commanders that scratch a similar itch. Yeah, they're more limited in different ways, but so is Secret Commander. Secret Commander works well when everything costs four mana and the Secret Commander is easy to protect. But, when it's four mana for a Nephilim Epical and another four for Ink-Treader, a single Path to Exile and there goes your deck. So, yeah, that's where I ended up and I quickly moved on to bigger, wetter things. But, then 22 hours ago, my favorite subscriber, Musket, made a comment about Nephilim. The word streamline stood out to me. Hold up. That's what I specialize in. Give me any commander and my first thought is always blink, clone, protection, pump, undying. Can we do that with Nephilim?

[2:08] And it turns out we can. And actually, as different as they are, the Nephilim do have subtle synergy with each other. And as I built the deck, the enablers began to overlap and the Venn diagram, which I previously thought didn't exist, emerged. Instead of one single secret commander, what we have is more like an assembly line where each Nephilim brings us closer to the end game. Glint Eye for early game resource gathering, Doom Weaver for deploying a winning board state, Ink Treader is our finisher. And then there is Witch-maw. This one is the derpy one, but it's actually decent as a wild card or distraction. And of course, we have the Nephilim Epical to tie everything together and to act as a surprise end game boss. And what's even more interesting is when I presented this idea to my friend Gary, this was his response.

[2:51] I was confused, but then I realized what he was talking about. Now, I've never seen the Naruto anime. I do plan to eventually, but with how hyped Gary sounded, I decided to spoil myself to what is a very important plot line of the show for this video. And honestly, I'm a bit sad that I did because it's actually so cool. It's something I looked forward to in the life after Ugo. So yeah, for my sacrifice, I think I deserve a subscribe and a like. And also, I'm going to avoid spoiling major plot lines of the story because I don't even I'm not even too familiar. I will mostly talk about the characters and their abilities, but if you don't want to be spoiled about that either, I would hold off on this video for now. The deck list is in the description. Now, let's get started. So, Pain is a group of six villains from the Naruto series.

[3:32] They share the same vision, I mean literally, and they fight as one coordinated team. The Deva Path is the leader tying everything together while others handle scouting, summoning monsters, brute damage, energy manipulation, and even reviving destroyed teammates. Now, I know the comparisons are not perfect. If you are a huge Naruto fan, you can probably correct me, but this really does help me visualize how the deck works and the role of each Nephalem. And of course, Divapath, the leader, is Epical Nephalem. This is the commander, the one that assembles our Nephalem army. And also, when everything else fails, this will turn into the final boss that your opponents will have to beat. Now, let's move on to phase one of our game plan, resource gathering with Humanpath, the Glint-Eye Nephalem. This early stage is for gathering intel, digging deeper into our deck for more of the key cards, more ramp, and if you're lucky, other Nephalem to support Glint-Eye Nephalem.

[4:19] The first group of enablers in this deck are pump spells and protection spells. And our commander is a really helpful source of evasion. So, we get our hit in, sculpt our hand, and prepare for phase two. And the first bit of synergy overlap here is replacing generic protection with these blink spells. This way, when we need to, we can reset our commander to grab the second Nephalem, Doombrute. This one is the Animalpath, the one that swarms the battlefield with creatures. They're not necessarily lethal on their own, but they have to be dealt with. Doombrute triggers when it hits our opponent. Now, this brings us to another piece of cross synergy that I've designed into the deck. Instead of more generic pump spells, I'm using double strike and extra combat enablers. These cards can enable Glint-Eye Nephalem just as well.

[4:59] But, using these with Doombrute, we get to create a massive army in just one turn. Okay, now that we have a bunch of these sand warriors, we go into phase three, Blink-Search-Ink-Treader Nephalem. Now, this one is the Predatorpath. This is the one that can absorb an input of energy and repurpose and amplify. This is our finisher. How? Well, remember those pump spells from earlier? And ladies and gentlemen, we've come full circle. These three Nephalems form the core of our game plan, and 90% of our cards are dedicated to supporting this trio. Now, there are also some other pretty interesting combinations. For example, if you have these three on the board, this is also a winning combination, where every pump spell and protection spell is applied to the entire group. So, you can continue to attack and refill your hand, and your opponents will be dropping fairly quickly to commander damage.

[5:44] So, yeah, lots of cross energy and different combinations we can use. But, if things go south, we still have a few backup plans. First one is the Yurlok Nephilim Naraka path. This is our safety net. When our key pieces are removed, this will be responsible for bringing them back for one more hit. If this piece also falls, then that's it to our core game plan. We have to think of something else. And of course, there's one more, the Witch-Maw Nephilim. Now, this one is the Asura path. It's just a dumb beater. It doesn't synergize with anyone. But, this one you can deploy at any time and just let it grow. And combine with our commander's evasion along with our ability to double and even quadruple power, this can be a surprise finisher. So, it's the kind of card that don't do much, but your opponent also can't just ignore it altogether.

[6:25] Yeah, so this one is more like a wild card, a distraction while you carry on with your core game plan. But, what if the game plan falls apart? Your squad gets annihilated. Now, we're doing everything we can to prevent that with all of our protection spells, but it can definitely happen. That's when Nephilim Epical turns into the end boss. Yeah, in the early game, remember when you took five damage from a commander? Well, now it's a 16/16 with the built-in evasion and the number of pump spells we have, Nephilim Epical is definitely a viable plan B. And that's the entire deck. We do have a few pieces dedicated to interesting and clever shenanigans like mass cloning or Saw in Half, but that's it. We don't have much room for anything else. This is a very linear deck because the Nephilims are definitely clunky. They don't have haste, cost four specific colored mana.

[7:06] So, we do need the entire deck working together to support them. We have 12 pieces of ramp. There should be more, probably. If you're finding the deck slow and inconsistent, add more ramp, take out some pump spells or something. These two mana dorks are a must-have. They tap for five mana with our commander on the field. While the higher arks are excellent one-drops, and the exalted is very useful in the early game. And aside from these, I'm only using the two-mana ramp effects to get our commander out on turn three. And also, because later on, we have to kind of weave these in between the pump and protection and all that stuff. I'm actually tempted to try signets or talisman, and I might make that switch if the deck turns out to be too slow and clunky. And for lands, now I'm not the best at building five-color mana base, but in this case, all fixing.

[7:46] We need to make sure that we can cast a four-drop on turn four and a four-drop plus protection spell on turn five. So, there's no room for utility. I'm actually tempted to cut even Roller Coaster Tower. We'll see. So, yeah, that's the deck. This is my attempt to make the best Nephilim deck you can in 2026. Sure, in the future they might release more Nephilim. That will That might change everything, but for now, this is the most synergistic list I can think of that uses all the Nephilim with a clear game plan and path to victory instead of like what Nuke said, five-color slop. And also, a sweet enemy reference, thanks to Gary. Imagine Secret Lair or some alters with this theme. That would be sick. That said, this deck has its problems. Now, this is a very laser-focused game plan with large vulnerable pieces.

[8:27] People will complain that I don't have any interaction or removals, but I think that should be easy for you to figure out. If you find this deck consistent enough, you can easily cut some pump spells, cut some protection spells for removals, board wipes, or even counter spells. This is five-color. You can do anything you want. Just make sure to keep the core intact and gradually explore the different options. This deck is not the first deck you should build. The mana base can be expensive and the return on investment is average at best. It is not the most powerful or the most resilient and it can be pretty tricky to play with all the decision trees and not over committing. And I just came up with this list about 10 hours ago, so I haven't tested much. I will be testing over the next week or two and I will update the list. Speaking of that, we have some giveaway business to do.

[9:08] First of all, like all of our regular videos, this video will also have two winners. The rules are the same. Comment, subscribe. Except this time, one winner will be chosen randomly and another will be based on the suggestions you give. Because the Ugu videos, as much as I joke, they were some of the best experience I've had building a deck, interacting with the community, getting all these suggestions I have to look through, and justifying including or not including. And the Ugu list changed so much from the beginning. And I think it is now much better and much more consistent. So, I would like to do that. For each comment, I will take the top suggestion as your entry and roughly 1 to 2 weeks from now, I'm going to make a list of suggestions that made it into the deck and pick randomly from there.

[9:49] Now, the detailed rules will be down in the descriptions, but yeah, that's something I want to try to basically build the deck as a community. And of course, my card choices can be subjective and sometimes straight up wrong, but there's not much I can do about that. I My goal is to build the best deck possible and a lot of you are maybe familiar now with my deck building philosophy. So, yeah, if you want a little deck building challenge, feel free to try. If not, just comment anything like a lot of these dads are already doing and you still have a chance of winning. But either way, thank you so much for watching the video till now and participating. And yes, we're announcing the winners from my previous previous giveaway. Not Homer, but the one from the Ugu video part three. First winner for the monster deck box is someone who's very good at reading, Jared Wonacott.

[10:31] And our second deck box winner is Kasamori, a magic player who doesn't want more lands. This is blasphemy. I almost wanted to re-roll. But yeah, congratulations to Kasamori. And finally, the grand prize winner winning a beautiful deck bentel. And the winner is Camel Blake. Can't wait to see where this Ugu arc takes us all. I guess it takes you to the deck bentel. Congratulations, Camel. I will do everything I can to reach you guys. And this is how I will be announcing future giveaway winners as well. Thank you for sticking around. For those of you interested in Kappa Poppo products, check out their site. They have some beautiful stuff and if you're interested, use my code levels for a 5% discount. I will see you in my next
