# Jandor turns Draft Chaff Into Beasts
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/BEGH93c3UL4
date: 2026-08-03 | views: 3,311 | likes: 129 | comments: 39 | length: 9:31 | words: 2,164 | wpm: 227.7
tags: MTG, EDH, Commander, Jandor, Tribal, Saddle, Magic the Gathering, Mystery Commander

[0:00] Hello everyone, how are you? This is Jen with next level commander. I know I've been gone for a while and actually my break was going to be longer but then this happened and this this this and all this. So I figured okay, it's a good time to come back and holy crap, have you seen these designs from the mystery packs? These are wild. These are pretty much the greatest hits from the custom magic forms. Now I know that R&amp;D they claim they cannot look at custom designs just like how they do not look at card prices on the secondary market. But holy crap, this set is basically decades of dreams and memes accumulated into one epic set. So better start saving up now because the printer ink is going to go up in price. So anyways, the one that stood out to me was actually this guy. I know I know there are cooler and flashier ones out there and we'll get to them but somehow this guy just stood out to me.

[0:44] Now I'm a lover of animals, I love them in all shapes and sizes, grilled, barbecued but this guy, Gendahr, he loves them as much as I do. Beasts, camels, horses, elephants and wolves, this guy doesn't care about the species as long as it's ridable, you're in. And that's a pretty big range when it comes to tribal. And the payoff here is pretty excellent. The saddle creatures get bigger, we draw cards and we get a bunch of food tokens. Yeah, lots of synergies we can do artifact synergies, we can do life gain. Imagine this with extra combat. Yeah, we are in the right colors for all of that. Should be pretty straightforward. So excitedly I open up Scryfall and the drop off is pretty steep. It's mostly just beasts and some wolves but camels and horses they're not going to be doing much.

[1:24] A few decent elephants. So I tried to put it together and the deck doesn't run well because when you're playing these fatties that are good but not amazing so you got to ramp a bunch and the ones you drop them you have to saddle them so you need another set of creatures to tap and yeah, again it's the same problem as vehicle. Yeah, this is not going to work. So we decided to take another approach. I mean the commander again, the ability is really freaking good and when you have a commander like this I don't think the individual creature quality is huge. Again, take Yuriko as an example, you would take a 1 1 flying ninja over these huge bomb ones any day. Now Gendahr is no Yuriko, but there are some parallels. If we just go small, we'll maximize the card draw, and this will give us enough gas to stay in the game and maybe find something to work with the food tokens, I don't know.

[2:07] And we get to make another trip to our favorite landmark, the trash bin behind the LGS. So, that seems like a plan, but once again, we have another hurdle, which is the tapping, cuz we got to saddle them. And I don't know about you, but tapping a Crocsaur War Chief to saddle a Young Wolf doesn't feel like the most efficient play. But then, I remembered my Captain America deck. If the vehicles can ride each other, why can't the animals? Unfortunately, we don't have the sick untapping of Captain America, but we have card draw. So, we get to play garbage narrow cards that are situationally really good. And in this case, I'm talking about these, the untap spells. One mana untap everything, mobilize, vitalize, all these sweet elegant one-word names wasted on cards that end up sitting around collecting dust. Well, not anymore.

[2:49] Oh, I think they missed garbage day. Still smells better than LGS. And moving up the mana value ladder, we have to arms, Russet Arrester, Rampage, Benefactor's Insight. Village Bell-Ringer, and finally Great Oak Guardian. I'm not sure this one is worth the mana cost, to be honest, but the pump is pretty sweet. But what's really good are these extra combat ones. Now, not all of them work, but these ones I've chosen can serve as an untap spell in a pinch. Although ideally, you want both combats. Full throttle here is the full package. You untap everything before each combat, and you get three of them. So, you get all the draw, all the tokens, and the plus two plus two stacks. So, once again, that's the best finisher, no surprise here. And now, we get to meet the animals. And like I said earlier, pretty much the only criteria I looked at is mana cost.

[3:33] Not even power. Like if it's got lower than two power, whatever, we'll we'll double saddle something. And our goal here is to curve out early and start drawing ASAP. But unfortunately, even with lowered standards, our options are very limited. That's an oddly familiar feeling. But we're starting on a high note with Young Wolf. Oh, it's a good card. It's like a combo piece somewhere. Not here, though. Here it's just a Young Wolf. Dropping this on turn one will surely keep your opponents on the edge of their seats. Next we have Arborio Grazer. This doesn't even have power, so most of the time this will be saddled and attacking for two, but dropping a land from hand is actually not bad cuz we will be drawing a lot of cards if our plan works. District Mascot, this is none of the tribes highlighted here, but it's a mount on its own, so yeah, saddle one is nice and it pretty quickly becomes a two-two, which is already above average by our standards here.

[4:18] Swarm Shambler is similar and pump itself as a mana sink. The abilities are not relevant. Yeah, we're kind of low on one drops here, so I'm filling the gap with our trusty elves. Yeah, I had to lie a little bit on the job description. These are probably the lowest quality creatures they've ever ramped into in the history of magic. But yeah, they are excellent. Fast, efficient ramp also helps out with saddling when the need arises. Okay, back to the animals. With two drops, the quality goes up, but not by much. We have Bullwark Ox. Okay, this one is actually excellent. Slowly pumping our creatures and eventually becoming a protection spell. And Felidar Cub to get us out of the Decree of Silence lock. Killed the Golda and the new wolf here are excellent because early game we're usually restrained by mana. Speaking of that, we also have two low quality mana dorks who should realistically be unemployed, but this deck has heavy DEI quotas to fill.

[5:05] Imagine you are a Llanowar Elf looking at your colleague with double pay. Anyways, just a few more to round out the two drop slot. I'm not going to bother to read them. But actually the steed is pretty decent. Now up to three drops. That's a pretty high cost for what we're doing here, so we expect quality. We start off pretty good with two ramp spells. One is a wolf, the other is everything. So is Arborio Mauler. You know a tribal deck is struggling when the changelings are some of the best creatures. And there's also P Metroid Blazer. It's a cool card, but unfortunately it needs six energy, not five, and our commander pumps by two, not three. But we'll get there sometimes and it is going to feel good. Krosan Vorwsheep, a lot of our creatures are beasts, so the abilities are pretty relevant. Garruk's Harbinger and Ferocious Pup is three mana for two wolves.

[5:48] That's good, right? I mean, I cut Elder Gargaroth for this, so it better be good. And at four drop, we have Ulvenwald Oddity. It's just a cool card. Not sure how good it is, but it's a cool card I've been wanting to play and late game is kind of a finisher. And finally, Blossoming Bogbeast. And this card should be nuts, right? Cuz it's a beast and it gives our team plus two plus two, but then we have a bunch of food tokens. So, every two mana we spend will be another plus three to our team. That's reasonable, right? Okay, that's it for our creatures. But we do have some non-creatures that create creatures like the Ranger Class. Yeah, I had to dig pretty deep, but it's actually pretty good two mana two-two on We probably won't have spare mana to level up, but if we do, it's decent value.

[6:31] It diversifies our board in case of a board wipe. Also, for the late game, we have a few enchantments like Howling Moon. This will build us a board state out of nowhere. And Trelasid's Garden to make use of the food tokens. Curious Herd can be hit or miss, but it does have the potential to turn a empty board into game-winning. And finally, Fresh Meat as a part of our board wipe prevention package, which also includes Dawn's Truth, Heroic Intervention, and Flawless Maneuver. Also, Akroma's Will, but that needs no introduction. If you know me, it goes into every creature deck. Now, because we can establish a board fairly quickly and and with that board, we have card draw, we have damage, we have life gain. So, we got to keep them protected and a few specific pieces just for our commander. And to round things out, we have a few miscellaneous pieces of utility.

[7:14] They're pretty random cuz we have a lot of things going on. We have food, we have life gain, we have creatures. So, lots of synergies we can look into and we picked the best ones. To start off with the boring stuff, The Great Henge seems good here. And just a few backup pieces of card draw like Return of the Wildspeaker and Shamanic Revelation in case people catch on and target Gendur a lot. The next one, Aluren. I've been wanting to play this card for a long time. It seems to make sense here. We have low drop creatures and we're usually drawing more than we can play. Now, is Is possible that our opponents just straight up combos off with this? Yes. But I've been holding this card for 10 years. I'm playing it. Also, Collected Company, we're all about diversity here. And Ninja Pizza to turn our food tokens into treasures, which is usually more useful. And Knight of the Sweet's Revenge, which does it better and is also a finisher.

[7:57] And a soaring, and that rounds out our non-land cards. For lands, it's nothing too special. You can pretty much play whatever you want. The two that are worth mentioning are Contested Cliffs cuz it's a pretty sweet payoff if you have enough beasts, which I do. And Mutavault, it can saddle or be saddled. That's pretty decent. A few pieces to protect our commander and a few MDFCs. Color facing is pretty important here cuz we have a bit of an aggressive mana curve, so I wouldn't go too crazy with utility lands. We don't need a lot of basics either cuz we're not ramping too hard. So, yeah, just make sure you play the ones without too much drawback and you should be okay. And that's it for our deck. It's not the most explosive. It's a beatdown deck, but it doesn't apply too much pressure until a few turns into the game. It's fairly consistent and resilient.

[8:39] I mean, it's built around commander's ability to draw cards, so you won't usually run out of gas. Even if your board gets wiped, you just replay the same cards again, but with more potential for explosiveness. The deck is very straightforward. Just to figure out the sequencing, like when to drop your commander and when to fire off the big on top turn, and you should do pretty well. Now, the list included down below is a full budget version, but this is absolutely a great budget deck to build. The core of the deck is about $50, and every card above $5 is easily cuttable except for maybe full throttle. And for power, I think we sit at bracket two, but we can challenge bracket three and do reasonably well. And that's it for today. Once again, I'm sponsored by Kakapopo TCG, so if you like these sweet designs, go to their site. You can use my code levels, all caps, to get a discount.

[9:20] This is Jen with Next Level Commander. If you enjoy my content, please like and subscribe. And we have some sweet commanders coming out, and yeah, I will be building a lot of them All right, see you.
