# Upgrading to Bracket 3 - Final Fantasy Revival Trance Collector Deck Opening
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/DLcSx--csMI
date: 2025-06-14 | views: 2,474 | likes: 51 | comments: 3 | length: 49:32 | words: 8,776 | wpm: 177.3

[0:00] Hello, this is Jyn from Next Level Commander and today we have a Final Fantasy Commander deck, the Collector's Edition. The cards in here are beautiful once I open it. I think you'll understand why I bought the collector's edition. But today, we are not just opening the cards. We are taking a look at the deck and evaluating the cards. And we're looking to make some cuts and replacements to level up this deck. Because in Magic Commander, there are actually five brackets now that represent different power levels. And usually a pre-cond like this is bracket two. But through cutting some cards that are less synergistic and replacing them with more powerful, more synergistic cards, we're looking to upgrade this to a bracket three so that we can have more fun playing it honestly and face different, more varied opponents.

[0:40] So let's take a look. Let's begin. How do you open this? Okay, we've got a deck box and uh this rack here with the deck. What is this? This is the collector booster sample pack. We will open this in the end. But we also have some like emblems, tokens kind of thing and how to play.

[1:21] Sweet. Okay, let's go straight to the deck itself. The first card we have is Terra, Hero of Hope. At the beginning of combat on your turn, mill two cards, Terra against flying until the end of turn. Whenever Terra deals combat damage to a player, you may pay two when you do a return target creature card with power three or less from your graveyard to the battlefield. Tapped. You can see the treatment. Oh, this is super nice. And this card is kind of a it reminds me of Alicia right from a while ago.

[2:05] But this is a graveyard deck that is kind of aggressive, right? It wants to attack and uh yeah, it brings back some of the bigger cards from your graveyard because this also says we're power three, not CMC. So maybe we can cheat this with cards that are high CMC and low power. But we'll have to see what else this deck does. But right now it seems like again a gray centric deck that wants to attack that wants to be more aggressive and that also fits the color the color All right. So now Celeste rune knight. When Celis enters discard any number of cards then draw that many cards plus Whenever one or more other creatures you control enter, if one or more of them entered from the graveyard or was cast from a graveyard, put a plus one plus encounter on each creature you control.

[2:53] Okay, this fits. I mean, these two legendaries fit really well together. And yeah, this is like Celest is like an enabler for Terra and at the same time it's also pumping our board. So great for aggressive the aggressive game plan. Coin of Fate. When this artifact enters, surveil one. Uh, exile two creature cards from your commander. Sacrifice this artifact. An opponent chooses one of the exile cards. Put that card on the bottom. Then return the other to the battlefield tapped and you become the monarch. Okay, this card has got three abilities. Neither of them are really powerful. I guess the the returning a creature one is decent because it can be activated at instant speed, but also making monarch.

[3:37] All of these are cards that we want are effects that we want in this deck. So, I kind of like this card. And again, I'll try to I try not to cut cards if possible just because I imagine a lot of people want to keep the Final Fantasy theme together, but for now, this card is fine. Can Vengeful Samurai, seven mana. This spell cost one less for each creature card in your graveyard. Whenever one or more creature cards leave your graveyard, it gets plus one plus one counter. Uh this is the kind of card that does nothing except it's big right it will be cheap and is kind of big can attack for say 5577 double strike. So later if we see that this deck is more aggressive more beatd down sure this can go in but if we're looking for more graveyard synergy or more value then will be cut.

[4:26] So for now we're going to make a maybe pile. Actually the maybe pile is for cards that are we're not so sure about keeping. So, let's flip them back like this. Okay, next up, General Leo Christophé. When General Leo enters, return up to one target creature card with mana value three or less from your graveyard to the battlefield. Then, put a plus one plus one counter on it for each creature you control. So, this is a three three at least, and it's like a mini Sun Titan effect, returning three CMC creatures. We'll see how many three CMC creatures we have, but I imagine there's a bunch. I mean, our commander is three CMC if I'm not mistaken and yeah, this is a decent effect. Again, not as good as Sun Titan, but this creature has the potential to go pretty big, right?

[5:11] To be a 5577. So, I think it's a keep for now. each uh exile each opponent's graveyard. When you do, choose up to one target creature card. exile this way, create a token that's a copy of this card, except it's an artifact and it loses all other card types. So, it's a really cool instant. I would I would play this in a lot of decks, but for this deck, again, this deck, we're not focusing on stealing from our opponents, I believe. So, if this was able to make something, steal something from our own graveyard without exiling it, I'd play it. But right now, again, it's a good card, but I don't think it's got enough synergy.

[5:53] So, I will set this aside in the maybe pile for now. The Falcon Airship Restored. I opened a lot of these yesterday in a collector in the collector's booster box, but it's a great card, right? When it deals damage, you may sacrifice it. You can return then you can reanimate a creature. And this is only three mana, so it's pretty good value if you hit someone. And also, you can spend five mana to return this card from your graveyard to the battlefield tapped. So, if you mill this and you just activate it this ability, it's pure value. And crew two is reasonable. So again, vehicles are kind of I I feel kind of out of place in this deck, but but the abilities do synergize well. So we'll keep this for now.

[6:34] Interceptor, shadows, hound, menace. Assassins you control have menace. Whenever you attack with one or more legendary creatures, you may pay two and a black when you do. If you do, return this card from your graveyard to the battlefield, tapped and attacking. Uh again, this is like the airship where you can mill this and you can bring it back, but it's what it gives assassin's menace and it's a menace 43 because this is kind of an aggressive card, but at the same time, it feels like a almost an aristocrat kind of card, which I'm not sure this deck is doing. And yeah, you can return this tapped and attacking.

[7:14] How many assassins do we have? Do we have a bunch of assassins that this Not really. I think we'll have to see on this one. We'll put this on in the maybe pile. Rejoin the fight. Mill three cards. Then, starting with the next opponent in turn order. Each opponent chooses a creature card in your graveyard that has hasn't been chosen. Return each card chosen this way to the battlefield under your control. So you mill three and then you you return in a four-player game the three worst creatures in your graveyard for six mana. I think it's reasonable. It's not the best reimate spell, but it does fit in this deck and it's it can be pretty good.

[7:56] So yeah, we'll give it a pass. Shadow Mysterious Assassin death touch 33. Whenever it deals combat damage to a player, you may sacrifice another nonland permanent. If you do, draw two cards and each opponent loses life equal to the mana value of the sacrificed permanent. Again, I'm not sure this deck is a kind of an aristocrat deck. It can work because again, your commander is reanimating from the graveyard. But what are we going to sacrifice if we can make a bunch of tokens? Sure. If we can have a lot of creatures that are that are like bloodgast creatures and Oh yeah, this is his dog.

[8:37] I just realized. But interceptor, the cost is not cheap, right, to return it. So, I'm not so sure here. I'll put shadow again in the maybe pile. If we turn out to be more tokeny, more aristocraty, then this will come back in. Seigrid framed a famed swordsman. Four mana menace. When he enters mill three cards, then put X plus one counters on Seek Fred where X is twice the number of creature cards in your graveyard. Now, milling is nice because it enables our commander. And how big can this get? It can get pretty big big dong. So where do we put the other big dong? In the maybe pile. So yeah, we'll also put him in the maybe pile.

[9:17] If we are aggressive. If we are about the beatdown, then he will go in the deck. Gao Feral Youth. Whenever Gal attacks, put a plus one counter on it. At the beginning of each end step, if a card left your graveyard this turn, Gal deals damage equal to its power to each So, it's fairly aggressive, but also synergizes with our commander and our regular strategy. So, this is the kind of card that we want, we want to keep. Go, mysterious mime. At the beginning of combat on your turn, you may have go become copy of another target creature you control until the end of turn, except it name is Go. If you do, go and that creature each get plus two plus O and gain haste until the end of turn and attack this turn if able.

[10:00] It's nice cuz you can copy your commander, copy a legendary, and pump each other. And this card is quite aggressive, but it has no graveyard synergy. Yeah, it's just an aggressive card that gives haste. I I think it's just on on power alone this goes in because it's a really powerful card. Unlike cards like, you know, seek freak where if we're our deck is not doing it, this card is not really justifiable on power alone. Meanwhile, go is aggressive and it's again getting double triggers from our commander just feels amazing. And this is, I think, maybe one of the best cards we've seen so far. So, we'll keep it in for now. Seven. Sabin seven master of five mana 43 double strike. Wow. Blitz discard a card.

[10:41] You may cast this card from your graveyard using its blitz ability. So what blitz does is you can cast it. It will get haste, but the problem is it you will only last for a turn and then die. But when it dies, you draw a card. So it's kind of kind of a not sure how to say it, but you get to use it for one turn, cash it in, and get some value. Uh let's see. We can blizzard from the graveyard by discarding a card. Yeah, that's just excellent synergy because again, casting from graveyard is good. Being able to discard something you want to discard to reanimate later is excellent. And it's also a really aggressive body. So definitely a yes. Snort. Each player may discard their hand and draw five cards. Then snort deals five damage to each opponent who did this.

[11:24] Um wheels are good. They're kind of risky, especially when it's a May where your opponents can. This is helping your opponents a lot. Dealing five damage to each opponent is decent. Four mana. And this card, I think, is solid and it really enables our deck. And the idea is that it is symmetrical, but we want to break the symmetry of the discarding draw and also is able to be cast from the graveyard. So, this is the card I would put into the deck and try it to see if we are helping our opponents more than ourselves. But for now, we'll keep it. Straggle and realm. Let's see. Three mana, one three cost three to activate.

[12:06] Target opponent exiles cards from the top of their library until they exile instant sorcery or a creature card. You may cast this card without paying its mana cost. If you cast a creature spell this way, it gains haste and sacrifice it at the beginning of endstep and activate only a sorcery. So this card doesn't do anything with our deck. Yeah, I understand with these decks you have to have a theme, but also at the same time there's each deck is representing a Final Fantasy game, right? So for a lot of the characters, you need to do top down design and between top down design and having a syn having a theme and synergy, it's difficult to balance. So this is a case where just a random good stuff card. So I would cut it probably.

[12:48] Next up, summon Esper Val Garmand. four mana 33 flying haste. That's pretty aggressive, but exile an instant or sorcery card from your graveyard from each graveyard. Then you can add red for each lore counter on this saga and you may cast instant or sorcery uh cards exalt with the saga and you can use the mana from this I mean it kind of works with our deck the graveyard synergy but you need like when this comes down you need to have decent instant and sorcerers in our in our graveyard. We can't really depend on our opponents having it right. So, I will say maybe for this.

[13:29] It's such a good card, but again, is it for this deck? We'll have to see. Um, Raging Yeti. Oh boy, this is cool. Six man of 66. Trample at the beginning of combat on your turn. Choose one at random. Other creatures get plus three and trample. That's really good. Discard your hand and draw four cards. That's pretty good. And it deals five damage to any target. Yeah, all three modes are pretty good except maybe the number two when you don't want to discard your hand and it it does that. But that's kind of the fun with the chaos. And again, all abilities are synergistic with what we're trying to do. So yeah, I want to keep this in for now.

[14:11] Benon, the returner's leader. This one we also opened yesterday. Once during each trophy returns, you may cast a creature spell from among the cards in your graveyard that were put there this turn from anywhere other than the battlefield this turn. And whenever you attack, you can pay one to loot to discard a card and draw a card. Yeah, two mana. It's a bit aggressive. The cost is aggressive, but not the body. And although it's whenever you attack, so any creature, he doesn't have to attack. and being able to cast something. It's like paying one to loot and then it's basically paying one to draw a card every turn, right?

[14:52] It's cool. It's synergistic, but I feel like it's not quite impactful for for what we want to do. It's too slow. And yeah, the ability when you drop this on turn two, it's not really an aggressive start, is it? you don't really want to pay the one extra because you want to cast a three drop and you're not pressuring anyone's lab total with a one three body. So, I don't think this card does enough for our deck. And we got tons of mill cycling discard. So, I don't think we need this. Maybe Edgar Master Machinist. Once each turn you uh during each of your turns, you may cast an artifact spell from your graveyard. If you cast a spell this way, that artifact enters tapped.

[15:32] When Edgar attacks, it gives plus X plus O where X is the greatest mana value among artifacts you control. We are not an artifact deck as far as I can tell. We got one artifact. That's decent, but are we going to be able to get one artifact a turn to cast? We will have to see. I doubt it. This is another one of those, I'm guessing, top down designs that they try to make it fit into this deck. Uh, but in practice, it's not it's not working too well from what I can tell. So maybe Kefka, Dancing Mad. During your turn, Kfka has indestructible. Oh, this is seven mana. Wow. At the beginning of your end step, exile a card at random from each opponent's graveyard. You may cast any number of spells from among the cards exiled this way without paying their mana costs.

[16:16] Then each player who owns a spell you cast this way loses life equal to it mana value. Again, this is working with your opponent's graveyards. You can cast spells from your graveyards and then they lose life. This is such a cool card. I want to play it, but again, we want to do synergy first. Again, we'll see how many cards we're cutting. This might again, if I have to keep a card that is not so synergistic with the deck, this will be it, but we'll have to see. Lock, treasure hunter. Lock can't be blocked by creatures with greater power. Whenever lock attacks, each player mills a card. If a land card was mailed this way, create a treasure token until the end of turn. You can cast a spell from among those cards.

[17:00] So this guy is thief and very easy to it's really easy for you to get through to an opponent with this evasion and each player milling one. If you mill a land get a treasure and then you can cast the cards you Not entirely synergistic but it's got the stats to reanimate that we can reanimate with our commander and it does the milling and the treasure is nice. So, I'd say overall this card is decent. Yeah. Again, we are prioritizing lower cost and more aggressive creatures because that's what our deck seems to be doing. So, it's in Mog Mughal Warrior three mana lifelink dance.

[17:44] At the beginning of your end step, each player may discard a card. Each player who discarded a card this way draws a card. If a creature card was discarded this way, you create a one two white mug creature token. Then if another creature card was discarded this way, put a plus one counter on each you control. So you can discard the creature because most likely your opponents will be discarding none creatures. So the ceiling of this card is that every turn you play this right at the end step you're creating a token and they are what? How big are they? They are both on each. Yeah. So they are both two threes. So three mana you get two two three.

[18:27] uh two three lifelinks and you get to loot. I think that's aggressive enough because it will continue to grow the turn after and the turn after you will have a uh two two threes and then next turn you will have two three fours and a two three and meanwhile you're fueling your graveyard. You're helping your opponents a little bit too but I think it's decent. Setser wandering gambler. When sets interest, create the blackjack, a legendary three colorless Okay. Whenever a vehicle you control deals combat to damage, flip a coin. Whenever you win the flip, win a flip, create two tapped treasure tokens.

[19:08] Yeah, this is a cool card, but not for this deck. It's not made for this deck. Holy, what is this? The waring triad. Flying treble haste. Three mana, five five. As long as there are fewer than eight cards in your graveyard, the waring triad isn't a creature. Tap to mill a card. Target player as one mana of any color. Wow, this is this like the best mana rock you can make for this deck. Yeah, this is sweet. It's just a three mana mana rock and yeah, you can mill yourself and in the end you have a decent payoff. Yeah, I like this a lot. I like this a lot. Oh, now reprints. Sun Titan.

[19:49] this is? Wow, this art. I wonder what character this is. But yeah, Sun Titan. I mean, it's a staple from 15 years ago, but even now, I think it's pretty good. I think it's good enough just because when you mill yourself, you can get lands, you can get small creatures, and Sun Titan will will be a constant stream of value for your deck. And it's just so cool. It's hard to say no to this. Yeah, we're putting this in tragic arrogance. That's a reprint. an excellent board And this card, I think I think you play it even today. There is no board wipe like this where you can keep something, your opponents can keep something, but chances are what you let them keep is garbage. The key here is that you are the one picking what they keep.

[20:32] So, as a board wipe, I think this is solid. Arc faint of depravity. This is a Yeah, this is I think they keep trying to put this into pre-context, but this card is just not good. I think you have a five mana 54 demon and basically your opponents can keep two creatures and then sacrifice the rest like who who needs more than two creatures usually right if you're going wide sure but for most opponents two key creatures is what they need and sacrificing the worst one is not it's not that bad and there are there are way better effects if you want to clear the board right so I think arc fiend is like the first card I cut from each precon which is unfortunate because the art is sick but we'll continue.

[21:12] Whoops. This is a maybe reanimate. Oh, reanimate reprint. Yeah, this is one of the best reanimation spells in the game and definitely fits our deck. Rise of the Dark Realms. This is a win condition. Yeah, one of the better win Just gets all creatures from all graveyards. you're not milling your opponents too much. So, this is not as good, but it's still really powerful if you get to that nine mana. And again, if you're playing graveyard decks, you got to play the payoffs, right? This is like one of the payoffs. So, Poke Crop Primordial. Yeah, this card is so powerful, but again, you are stealing from your opponents.

[21:56] Sure, as the game goes naturally, you can steal things, but there's not much synergy with this card. again can't be reanimated with our commander and yeah it's again such a cool card you can put this in another deck but for this deck I don't think so combustible gear hulk when it enters you can an opponent can let you draw otherwise you mill yourself and boom them for damage now imagine this is the punisher effect imagine if your opponents just always let you do the damage I don't think this is very good and generally I think opponents would because your deck doesn't have a massive CMC. So on average, you're dealing probably six or six or to eight damage from the mill and you mill yourself for three.

[22:42] And for this cost, I don't think it's worth it. If your play group is more friendly and less, you know, there tech is strictly speaking playing the game kind of loosely. They'll let you draw. This is decent. But even then, six mana, draw three. I think we can do better. So flare of the hatebound. Whenever this creature or another creature enters from a graveyard, it deals damage equal to its power to any target. Yeah, this is another one of the chaos for this deck. It's pretty much perfect in here except it's got four power unfortunately, but yeah, it's a great card. It's got undying, so it will come back when it Rune Grinder.

[23:25] When this creature dies, each player may discard their hand and draw seven cards mountain cycling. I would keep this in just for the mountain cycling because this uh wheel effect once again is a may and you don't want to help your opponents with this. Usually, I find wheels help your opponents a lot. But yeah, with mount cycling, you can just situationally you decide, okay, I don't want this in my hand. I don't want to cast it this game. I can just cycle it. So, it's decent. Redevil. Redevil. This is serviceable is what I can say. Destroy target artifact creature or planes walker. But honestly in Mardu you have much much better removals. Yeah, just destroying something. And this color cost is not it's fairly color intensive, right?

[24:08] It's not cheap. So we'll put this in the mini board to see if we have room to upgrade the removal. If we do, we will. Next. Allegiance to Ashes. Exile target nonline permanent and opponent controls and all tokens that player controls with the same name. If this was an instant, this would be top top removal. But as a sorcery, I don't think this is good enough because once again, you are in the best colors for removals. Even like a path to exile, I think you're better off with. But something like, you know, merciless eviction, a merciless, what's it called? Anguish on making. My apologies. Anguish on making would just so much better than this. So, probably not. Priests of fell Pay three life, sacrifice it.

[24:52] Oh, this is a two mana reanimation spell. It's a bit slow and it costs life, but again, two mana to reanimate something is excellent value. And also, the Unear is great. Five mana, you can get another one immediately. Yeah, this is great for our deck. Ruinous Ultimatum. Wow, that's cool. Yeah, this is uh one of the payoff cards for playing Mardu. It's one of the Arguably one of the best board wives you can play. Yeah. Destroy everything your opponent's control and keep all your This one stays in. Key to the city. Discard a card. You can give something unblockable and then when it untaps, you can pay to to draw a card.

[25:32] It's a bit slow, but it does have great synergy with the deck cuz sometimes you don't even need to draw the card. Just you just want to discard outlet and at the same time your commander is not huge, right? How big is our commander? Let's see. Our commander Terra is a three- does get flying though. So the evasion I'm not sure we need the evasion anymore then because what's the chance of each opponent having a flying blocker but again we are kind of aggressive. We want to attack. So this card draw unblockable might be good enough. I'll put this in the deck and see and see how it performs.

[26:12] All right, next up, Solemn. Whoops. So It's uh an old staple, but I think it's still good enough, especially in Mardu when you don't have green. And just bring this back with our commander is excellent value. Yeah, it's all I want to do. Even though I should be aggressive and attacking, but I just want to recur this card. Yeah, it's like the for those of you not familiar, this is like the OG value card. Yeah. And to this day, it's still it's so nice to see in your in your hand. Are we on to lands already? I guess we are. Battlefield Forge. It's a decent Cliptop retreat.

[26:55] Yeah, I think a lot of the lands they're including are just really good compared to especially the precons from the early days. Now, nowadays, they've printed and reprinted so many of these lands that they are not that expensive that they won't hurt their reprint equity so much. So they are more generous with it. And the precon land base is honestly decent. I wouldn't change it too much. I don't feel the need to do that. Dragon skull summit. Yeah. Exotic Orchard. Oh wow. Filter lens too. Nice. For boating runes, Furycom, snarl. Yeah, these are all lands I would play anyways. At least in two-color decks. In three color, there are some upgrades, but I wouldn't feel bad playing these lands.

[27:35] High market, excellent choice. Isolated Chapo rugged prairie. Yeah, so far the lands look great. Uh, shadow blood ridge shine, shadow snarl, smoldering marsh. Yo, the colors in this deck is solid. Okay, but why do we have more nonlands? What is happening? Did I mess up the sorting? Maybe I did, but it's okay. We'll keep going. Phoenix down one uh one color, one white for exoit. You can return a four mana card from your graveyard to the battlefield tapped or exile skeleton spirit zombie. So this part is not that relevant.

[28:17] It'll be hilarious if it's relevant, but I playing a card just for that effect. I don't think is good enough. I mean, just compare this to reanimate, right? So maybe laughing mad as an additional cost to cast this. Discard a card, draw two cards, flashback. Yeah, that's pretty good value. Excellent enabler. Angel of ruins. It's got plane cycling. When it enters, exops two target artifacts or We don't have a lot of big reanimation effects. So, if we cycle this, this is b basically stay in the graveyard. But the body I think is quite relevant being able to again this is seven mana 57 is excellent excellent rate and early game again if you seven mana is too far out of reach you can just cycle it for a land.

[29:09] So this is yeah I think overall an excellent card palace Jailer. When this creature enters you become the monarch when this creature enters exile target creature until you lose monarch until an opponent becomes the monarch. This is great in legacy but not in commander just because it's much easier for them to take monarch for you from you than to remove a creature. So this is worse than like an oblivion oblivion ring effect. And monarch is nice. We like monarch but there are way better cards for giving monarch. So we will not include this morbid opportunist. Whenever one or more other creatures die, draw a card. We are not killing our own creatures.

[29:50] At least not with what we've seen so far. We saw one card that can sacrifice, but aside from that, we're not really triggering this ourselves. So, we have to rely on on our opponents triggering this. I don't think that's super I don't think that's too reliable. I don't think we can bank on that. So, I This card probably doesn't do enough in this deck. Nice whisper. Just a simple basic draw spell that goes in for sure. Pitilus thunder. Whenever another creature you control dies, create a treasure token. Again, we are not killing our own creatures.

[30:33] But I mean, seeing those two cards, I may be wrong. If later we see some aristo more Aristocrat pieces, then we will we will adjust. But for now, it's not in the deck. Stitch together. This is not the best reanimation spell, but but it's decent. I guess serviceable. And uh getting threshold should be fairly easy in this deck. So we'll keep it in for now. Stitcher supplier. All this card does is mill. I don't think it's enough. I want my cards to, you know, mill and also do other things, not just a one mana one one that jump blocks once. Maybe anger. Yeah, this is like a staple in the aggressive graveyard deck.

[31:14] I mean, this the perfect card. Never cast this unless I mean you'll feel sad if you cast this. Generally, you want to discard it or mill this into the graveyard and then your entire team is just that much stronger, that much more aggressive. Big score, discard one, draw two, create two treasures. Great card. Yeah, not much to say. Crackling Doom. This is a pretty good removal, right? Each opponent sacrifices their biggest creature compared to what we saw, the ones we cut earlier, right? You can see why this is better. and two damage to each opponent. Why not? Mortify. Not the best removal, but I think Yeah, because again, instant speed is just huge.

[31:56] And creature enchantment, no All right, next up, we have some ramp. Arcane Signate, not much to say. Commander Sphere seems good. Meteor seven mana when it enters. destroy something. It's a three- three, so it works with our commander. I feel really good to bring this back over and over. We don't have a bunch of sacrifice effects, but it looks like we might have to add some. So, the meteor golem will we'll keep it in for now. Yeah, just because we need more removals and something that synergistic that's synergistic with our commander and can be done over and over. I think is it's worth trying at least.

[32:40] Milikin two mana one one add colorless mill a card. Is this good? I'm not sure how to evaluate this card. I don't think it's excellent, but getting this on on turn two is pretty nice. You pretty much you enable your entire strategy or you can mill mill add some mana. So it'll be really nice to see this in the opening hand. So I'll keep it in for now, but I I suspect this will be one of the first cuts when I find something better. Mindstone. Cool card. Sar ring. This is Wow. What is this ring? I want to Is it a Magisite? Yeah. I wish I play more Final Fantasy again so I can appreciate these cards more.

[33:22] Sweetful boots. Beautiful. Talisman. Excellent. Talisman. Only two of them. Really? We'll see. Wait for his bobble. That's a lot of ramp. Honestly, how many pieces of ramp do we have? Let's take a look. Two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10 pieces of ramp. it's fine. Ash barons. Okay, more lands. Demolition field. It can destroy a special land. It's not the best land destruction effect, but again, we need it. You know, we Well, people are playing crazier and crazier lands nowadays, and we need something like this keep to keep them in check. Evolving wilds, I don't think we play.

[34:06] filling our graveyard, we do have some payoff like Sun Titan for example. Okay, we play it. Yeah, there's enough synergy and no way they would include the fetches in here. And we're not going to uh recommend fetches in our upgrade guide. We'll try to have a budget. So now we have some lands that we might cut. Geothermal bog. This land interest tapped. It's got basic land type, but it's just not good enough. Like I would cut this, but right now I want to save our upgrade slots slots for nonlands. So for now, we'll keep it in. But honestly, let's see how many basics there are. I think replacing these with basics would just be better because you don't have that many basics.

[34:49] But you're probably better off with basics compared to these Nomad outpost again tapped, but it's three different colors. So this I will I'll let it go. But entering tab making two mana and having even though it has basic land types but it's not really relevant in this deck. So yeah this I think I will keep path of ancestry. Do we have a lot of tribal stuff? Let's take a look. Human human vehicle human wizard human. Okay I think that's reasonable. Yeah mugo god.

[35:30] I think that's reasonable. Okay, even just scrying once from your commander is kind of okay, but if you scry twice, I think it's it's paid for itself. So, also it makes any color. Yeah, definitely. Rogues Passage, expensive, unblockable, but it's still unblockable on a land. So, I'd say yes. Sacred Peaks. Yeah, you know how I feel about Um, Command Tower, yes. And then basics. One, two, three. These basics are These are nice. Wow. Yeah. See, at the same time now I I don't want to add more basics just because I want to keep them this art.

[36:11] If we add basics, we'll have to add something different. Or if you go really deep, you go buy some basics. Some of these basics and add them in. But yeah, this is nice. Wow. The blackjack. Okay. Now we're on to tokens. Coffee. Coffee. Coffee. Treasure. Treasure. Okay. And that is the deck. Let's take a look at how many cards we put into the maybe pile. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 cards. Just over 20. But there are a few cards in here that I actually after seeing the whole deck I want to return. Now the first card is let's see secret.

[36:54] Yes, because we are a big dumb beat down deck. It is confirmed and this is a big dump big dump beater that knows our that fills our graveyard. So for sure shadow still no buts can again doesn't enable our strategy but does synergize with it gets cheaper. you know, dropping this for say three or four mana and having it be, I don't know, easily a 55 I think is reasonable, solid, can win games for And for everything else, we'll take a closer look after I sleeve everything. Okay, this is where we look at some cards we add.

[37:37] So, we ended up cutting 19 cards here. We will add in 19 cards, but before that, I remember this. I forgot to open it earlier, so I will open it now. Collectors sample pack. Let's see what's in here. Nice. An ad card. Uh, okay. We got summon Exion. Oh, this is cool. And High Digger. High digger. This is okay. Cool cards. But for now, we're going to focus on the deck itself. I've separated the cards by function. Uh, we have lens removals and that. So, lens, starting with lens, we got 37. Yeah, I think this is fine. Maybe a little bit low, but our deck is also pretty low curve, so it's okay. I don't like the tapped ones.

[38:17] Where are they? These ones, but we'll keep them in for now because we want to focus on the change on nonland cards because those changes will be a little bit more impactful. So, for nonland cards, we're starting with this pile, which is the cards that help us fill our graveyard. We have 10 pieces here. I think that's solid. We do want more, but the cards in here are pretty good. Yes, because this is kind of the main strategy of the deck. nothing like this pile. The pile that recurs won't do anything without this pile. So, we want to add more here. And the recursion pile, fortunately, our commander does a bit of both. It kind of fills our graveyard and does recursion. So, this can this one card can count towards both piles and multiple cards because again, it's our commander and we've got 1, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 10 cards here as well.

[39:02] 10 cards that bring stuff back from graveyard or does recursion. Yeah. Next up, spot removals. Spot removals and board wipe. Actually, uh, four spot removals and two board wipes. I think this number is a little bit low. I will add two to each. Yeah, two to each. And once we're done with that, this is ramp. I miscounted earlier. We have nine pieces of ramp, which I think is more than enough for this deck. Again, our curve is not that high. So, nine pieces of ramp and also random good stuff. So, beat beers payoff. uh just really good creatures with two power and yeah big dudes and some draw spell. So now we will add 19 cards to the deck.

[39:45] So starting off we'll start with the recursion cards. So first of all, living death. This is like the ultimate ultimate card to pay off for graveyard decks. uh when you need a board wipe especially you can just pull this off and bring back five to seven creatures from your vyard and it's so much value. I mean it can backfire you won't always want to cast it but when you do it's so good. Next up karmic guide. Now this is excellent because it is two power and it can bring back any of the larger creatures. So with your commander, your commander can bring back Terra can bring back Karma Guide and Karma Guide can bring back anything and it's got an echo cost which means it will sacrifice itself at the end of the next turn it comes in and if you don't pay the echo cost but that's actually an upside because being able to dump itself into the graveyard isn't something that a lot of creatures have.

[40:38] And we don't have a ton of sack colors in this deck. We're not going to that direction. So Karma Guide is actually perfect for this deck. U yeah goes into this pile here. these two and Marshall's Anthem. This is one of the most efficient reanimator of you pay four for an Anthem and after that every two mana gets you a creature back. No finality counters, no no catch, just you just give them back and they all get plus one plus one. So all these abilities are extremely relevant to our strategy to our game plan. So this goes in and Alicia the original Terara kind of the OG terra where is has a very similar ability but only brings back two power creatures. Now we in this deck I counted we have about 12 I think 12 to 13 two power creatures so it's more than enough uh to satisfy Alicia and yeah also you can bring back Alicia with our commander to start kind of a chain which is cool.

[41:33] All right. So, these are the Now we have the pile for bringing stuff back from the graveyard. Now, take a look at the enablers or the discard. Starting off, we have faithless looting. This is the classic, one of the most efficient discard spells, uh, loot spells. It will get what you want in the graveyard dumped. And also, flashback. You can also dump this and just cast it from the graveyard without costing a card. And next up, this one is a little bit strange. This brass is tunnel grinder. It's a weird transforming artifact, legendary artifact. But look at the ability though. When it enters, you can discard any number of cards and draw that many cards plus one.

[42:14] So, it even replaces itself. And you can dump whatever you don't need and replace them with new cards. And the second ability is also decent. It says at the beginning of your end step, if you descended this turn, put a bore counter onto it. And when there are three board counters, you can flip it into a land. Well, first of all, triggering this is super easy in our deck with even just our commander, right? With just our commander, it's really easy to trigger the sand. So, in two, three, in three turns, actually, this will flip and it ramps you. And also, the land is quite powerful, even though it has no synergy with the deck, but it's just a really good value. Whenever you cast a permanent spell, uh, using this mana, this red mana, you get to discover X, where X is that spell's value. So, one spell becomes two spells basically.

[42:55] Yeah, enabler and later value payoff. Next up is Doom Whisperer. I don't think there's any questions about this. This is one of the best enablers for any graveyard strategy because the pay two life serial. You can just use it unlimited number of times. Now, be careful with your life total. We don't have a ton of life gain in this deck. I added a little bit, but this card is just too good to pass up. Just be careful. Don't use it too aggressively because you're not really a combo deck. And so, we have to maintain a life total while we beat down our opponents. And next, Buried Alive. Not much to say about this one. You straight up search for the three best targets into your and dump them into your graveyard and your commander will can reanimate them Yeah, just pure value.

[43:37] Next up, let's take a quick look at some removals and board wipes. So, the removals I added are number one, a cursed Whoops. A cursed marauder. This is the premium like the top flashbang marauder effect now because it's two mana and it has to be none token. So, this is just an upgrade. And for two mana, you can continue to loot this if your opponents are low on creatures. For example, if they're a Voltron deck or something that's creature light, for example, Spellinger with their just their commander, you can lock them. Whoops. You can lock them out with this and your commander. And I think for a deck like this, we need we need such an effect. Maybe even more if you find them to be really really powerful in your meta and removal.

[44:19] Next up is generous gift. This is just uh yeah, one of the best rules out there. Uh again, instant speed is so important in being able to kill anything. So, we have that here. And next up is board wipe. Uh the best red board wipe without a doubt is blasphemous act. And this is not too expensive. Now, it used to be a little expensive, but now thanks to reprints, this can I think this can be bought fairly cheaply and the effect is so good. What's great about this is you can usually pay one mana to cast this. Usually when the board is worth wiping, this is one mana and you will be the first to rebuild because you're not tapped out like with other board wipes. So blasmos and next up is fumigate because in our deck we actually we pay a fair bit of life and also we are aggro.

[45:02] We're kind of aggro so we are beating people down and we should expect back swing and fumigate is the board wipe. You pay one more mana than wrath of god but you gain one life for each creature destroyed this way. So you can easily gain up to 10 life and sometimes when someone is playing for example tokens going wide this can just bring you above 40 easily. So this is one of my favorite board wives that a lot of people don't play. Removals and board wipes are done. And next up is some of the good stuff. We'll start with just random good stuff cards that work well with our deck with our commander. Aurelia the war leader. Now first you will notice that it is three power. So, this can be brought by brought back by our commander and it is six mana and the ability is ridiculous.

[45:42] Sure, it might not trigger. It doesn't trigger on the when you first bring it back, but once you start attacking with Aurelia, all of your combats are doubled. And this is the kind of finisher we need to close out games. We need to kill three opponents. It's not easy. Aurelia will help you get there. Uh, this goes into this pile here. Next up, Sister of the Undead. Another the same stats as Aurelia. basically six mana 3 four. So perfect for our commander. And this is another card that reanimates. So I should actually put it in this pile. Yeah, the card that reanimates and brings stuff back uh in kind of a backup plan to our commander but more aggressive because the creature enters tapped and attacking. So yeah, I'll put this in in this pile actually.

[46:24] Next up is Kamisur Severina Rain. This is from another collector commander deck from the Warhammer set. And this has great synergy with her deck because it's aggressive. It gains it life and when you attack with creatures, it can Chamisar can drain our opponents. And at the same time, it's a sack outlet. We do need some sack outlets. We we barely have any, but sack outlets can be super useful just because if you want to re-trigger some of the ETB abilities, you want to reuse some creatures, you can sacrifice them to get value and then bring them back with our commander. So, this fits pretty well. Next up, Disciple of Bolas. Yeah, another kind of sack outlet. Also reusable if you can kill this. Uh, what's great about this is you can sacrifice any creature.

[47:06] We have some pretty large creatures, right? We sacrifice them, we convert them into card and life, and if we need it again, we can just bring it back, bring this back with our commander later on. So again, a much needed effect. Card draw, life gain, and sack outlet all in one. Next up is a well, two protection spells. But one of them is a finisher. The first protection spell is flawless maneuver. Uh yeah, a free protection spell is invaluable just because in our decks uh in our deck, we want to tap out because we are aggressive. We are playing proactively. But when we do that, we can get blown out by just a simple board wipe. But with this, we can actually blow our opponents out.

[47:46] If they're holding their board wipe, just waiting uh thinking that it will resolve and they will survive. you cast this and the next turn you do something like Aurelia and they're just dead and you can catch them by surprise and that's how aggressive decks win games actually. So, and uh here this goes here and I stop Achrome as well. This is I believe the most expensive card in this pile. It's about $15. Uh but this is just so powerful, so ridiculously powerful. Uh, it's a protection spell, but when used proactively, giving your creatures protection from all colors, flying, double strike, lifelink, this card by itself would will win any race. Yeah, there once you resolve this, you will not lose a race unless your opponent has one of these two.

[48:32] Um, yeah, not much to say. A beautiful finisher. So yeah, we have a deck and 100 cards pretty well balanced, synergistic, and I think you can again take this to a bracket three table and do pretty well. So this is our opening and upgrade guide to our revival trans commander deck from Final Fantasy. This deck is looks really fun. I look forward to playing it. And I I will do the same for the other three decks. I have them here. I'll show you real quick. Uh this is the Oops. This is the cloud deck. What's it called? Limit Break. Limit Break. And we have Whoops. Um, Science and Spellcraft.

[49:14] And lastly, Counter Blitz. So, we'll do videos for these. And if you like this video, please subscribe and like to not miss future videos. And if you have any suggestions, please make a comment. Thank you. I'll see you soon.
