# This Precon is a Mess - Final Fantasy Scions and Spellcraft Collector Deck Opening
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/FwB621JpabM
date: 2025-06-15 | views: 1,680 | likes: 31 | comments: 22 | length: 44:31 | words: 7,618 | wpm: 171.2

[0:00] Hello, this is Jin. Today we are looking at our third commander precon scions and spellcraft. And again, we are going to look at this deck, go through the cards, and yeah, see which cards to cut, which cards to add to make this a bracket three potentially. All right, let's go. And this is supposed to be the most popular commander. Okay, so here is again the deck box. Not super useful because I mean it's fine. It's kind of flimsy, but aside from that, we have the deck and a pack. Oh, here you go.

[0:43] We'll leave this here. So, let's take a look at Yish. What's her name? Yes. Yes. all right. Start with the commander. So, first of all, it's a four mana two for with vigilance. At the beginning of each end step, if a player lost four or more life this turn, you draw a card already. Really good. And whenever you cast a non-creature spell with mana value three or greater, your deals two damage to each opponent and you gain two life H.

[1:25] Yeah. So basically, you want to cast two spells a turn ideally or spells that drain your opponents. So then yeah, this seems seems pretty strong. I can see why she's popular because it's very open-ended. You can play all kinds of strategies. You can play aggro even. Uh yeah, so but I'm expecting this to be a spellinger deck. Graatia. This one we actually built uh a few days ago from a collector's box, but this one is like a shark typhoon kind of effect. Whenever you cast a spell, you make an XX and it's a hero. Yeah, it's a hero with X counters on it. So, it's actually bigger than XX, but it's only once a turn and you have to pay life and archander gains life. So, this is pretty good synergy. I'd say they work well with each other.

[2:06] Nice. Next up, Astral Astrologians. Astrologians Planet Sphere. two mana job select equipped creature is a wizard and whenever you cast a non creature spell and whenever you draw your third card each turn put a plus one plus one counter on this Uh I don't think are we a speller deck? We'll have to see but for now the first card being this makes me a little bit confused because are we are we playing equipments? Are we going to attack with our commander? That doesn't seem super And we just have a creature that gets bigger for each non-creature spell we cast. So based on what our commander says, I'm guessing plus one plus maybe plus two per turn.

[2:53] And that's not that big. So I'll put this in maybe. But it's a very tentative maybe because we'll see what the deck does first. Next up, Alice Level partner with Alford. Elf node leveler. Uh, first strike. The second spell you cast each turn costs two less to cast. Yeah. So, this makes sense because you want two spells a turn with Yota to trigger that four damage or the four uh four life loss trigger. Um, it's got partner. So, we'll have to see the partner to evaluate. Uh, let's find the partner. There you go. Alphaold, but on her own this ability or on his own, I'm not sure.

[3:35] Uh, the ability is not too powerful. Let's see. Alphod. Whenever you cast your second spell each turn, draw a card for four mana. Yeah, these effects are not too powerful, I'd say. Like, would you play these? It's difficult to evaluate partners because I guess you can evaluate them like room spells, right? Except you don't get to choose which side first. You You get this and then you get the other side. But I think it's close enough. Would I play these? Would I play this if this was a room card? I think yes. I think I'd say yes. So, yeah. Again, these fit the theme of the deck that I suspect the deck to be.

[4:17] Non-creature spells. Okay. When this enchantment enters, create X11 colorless hero creature tokens. When you attack with four or more creatures, Sky two, then draw a card. Are we a token deck? I mean, I know this triggers our commander, but I mean, we do have one token maker. We do have one token maker, but we'll see. If we have more tokens, then this will stay in. It seems like we have a bit of a token sub theme, so we'll put this in the deck for now. Uh, okay. Next up, dancers checks. Check rams. Uh, four mana equipment. It says equip creature gets plus2 plus two and and other commanders you control get plus2 plus two and have lifelink and is a performer equip three.

[5:07] So six cards in I'm already really confused. I understand the lifelink works well with our commander here. Yeah, because with this equipped onto our commander or with this equipped onto any creature actually, we get to deal two damage to each opponent, but gain eight life if there are three opponents. So, there's some synergy, but that alone I don't think is good enough. It's just kind of a decent equipment to have. So, we have kind of Okay, we have Spellinger, we've got tokens, and we've got Well, let's put our commander here. Whoops.

[5:48] Yeah, spell slinger, we've got tokens, and we've got equipments. And so far, I see I see some synergy between the the piles, but not too much. Next, what? Next up, the good king Mog 12 summon. Create 212 white Mughal creature tokens with lifelink. Whenever you cast a non-creature spell, create a token that is copy of a non saga token you control and then you can put two counters on each mug. So you can kind of do a mini overrun with these lifelinking muggles. Yeah. So this is a spell slinger payoff. Also makes tokens. Okay. So so far I see spells slinger. I see tokens. Um next up, Tataru.

[6:29] Taru. When Tataru Taro enters, you draw a card and target opponent may draw a card. Whenever an opponent draws a card, if it isn't that player's turn, create a tapped treasure token. This ability triggers only once each turn. H. This is a great value. You draw a card and you also get a treasure guaranteed. But this ability isn't going to trigger too much because your opponents have to draw not only extra on on their turn, but it's not like the cards where they trigger on when your opponents draw two cards on their turn. That those are actually easier. Your opponent has to draw cards on other people's turn, which requires very specific opponents.

[7:09] So, I don't think this fits into any of our themes. So, I I'll make an extra maybe pile, I guess, for now. is for now. I'm not even sure if any of these are being cut or all these. Fenrit Waters, it's got five out of three five flash. When they enter another target legendary permanent you control against indestructible for as long as you control Fredrit waters whenever you cast non creature spell, this gains indestructible until the end of turn. It's decent because our deck is most likely operating at instant speed. I hope. If it is, then this is a nice protection spell for any well, it has to be for our commander because legendary permanent. And also then we untap and we can hold up a spell to protect this and our commander.

[7:54] Our commander should be fairly important, fairly key to our game plan because in spellinger is hard to find win conditions. So I will put this in for now. This I would count this towards spellinger even though it's a creature because again it triggers off non-creature spells. Next up, blue mage's cane. Another equipment. Equipped creature gets plus O plus two is a wizard in addition to his other types and has whenever this creature attacks. Exile up to one target instant or sorcery from defending players graveyard. If you do copy it, you can cast the copy by paying three rather than paying it mana cost. it does sling spells.

[8:34] It's a little bit expensive. You have to pay three, then two, then three again to get one spell. But once it's equipped, if you can keep it around, it can generate lots of value and the spells can trigger our commander. So even though this is an equipment, I can see it being decent. Unlike these that don't do enough, I think this can do okay in a spell slinger deck depending on what your opponents have. And you're copying their large large speller, so you can trigger the show. So I'll keep this in for now because for some reason I I feel like we might be cutting a lot of cards here. I hope not, but just got a feeling. Hermes, overseer of Alis.

[9:15] Alpus. Whenever you cast a non-creature spell, good. There's the synergy we're looking for. Create a one- one blue bird creature token with flying and vigilance. Whenever you attack with one or more birds, scry too. See, it could have been one or more tokens to kind of unite our theme, but it has to be birds. I guess it's thematic to the character. But this is not a very powerful effect. I think it barely makes it. I mean, compared this to the other spellinger token makers, I think this falls short. Yeah, we'd rather have two twos or xx rather than just one ones. Like scry 2 is kind of marginal. Yeah, this card barely makes it. I hope the other spell singing payoff can be stronger than this.

[9:57] Oh boy, this this is cool. Of the first blood, I think I nailed it. Hardware of the first blood. Oh, it's a outer dragon. Holy Flying Vigilance W two. When Hardware enters and whenever you cast a non-creature spell, target creature gets plus one plus and can't be blocked this turn. I mean, that is not a good payoff for It's like they're trying to force Spellinger so they give this ability that reads like it has synergy, but it doesn't do anything. It's like, would you rather play whenever you cast an uncreation spell, you gain one life?

[10:37] You wouldn't, right? And this doesn't seem to work in our deck. Again, Arch Commander, we're not doing Voltron. We're not attacking for much. And this would work in a more offensive deck, in a Voltrony deck, or even this as the commander, right? You can play Voltron, you can kill people. But in this deck, even though it's a sweet dragon, I don't think there's enough payoff for what we want to do. So, I'll put that in the maybe pile. Observed stasis enchant uh flash enchant creature and opponent controls. When this aura enters, remove enchanted creature from combat. Then draw a card for each tapped creature is controller controls.

[11:17] Enchanted creature loses all abilities and can't attack or block. I don't like this too much for two reasons. Reason number one is because it is an enchantment. I know our commander says none creature, but most of the other cards that can work in this deck will say instance or sorceries. Yeah, not many cards in magic or in this color say none creature spells. And also at the same time, this card has two abilities. It's a draw ability and also it's a kind of a maze of if ability to remove an attacker. But you don't want these two abilities on the same card. And what I mean by that is sometimes an opponent attacks with a few small creatures.

[11:58] That's the perfect opportunity to draw, but then you're wasting the maze of vith ability and sometimes an opponent is attacking you with one large creature. You want to use it, but then you're just drawing one card. So I think you're much better off with a just a removal spell. Like in blue, we don't need to play suboptimal removal and suboptimal draw in blue white. Yeah. So I will put this in maybe. I It's a cool card, but not in this deck. Eye of Nidth Hog. Enchanted creature is a black dragon with base power toughness 42. Has flying and death touch and is golded. When Eye of Nit is put into graveyard from the battlefield, return it to its owner's hand.

[12:40] Again, it's an enchantment. I don't like it, but this ability is much better that you can gold their big thing. And yeah, it's reusable, so you can continue to trigger trigger to continue to do So, it's like you always have something to cast. Okay, this one again, it's not my favorite card. I might cut it later, but for now, again, I feel like I'm cutting I'll be cutting like half of this deck. And again, I want to I want to clarify. I'm I am making suggestions based on power and function. And but commander is not just about that. You can play whatever you want. If you like these cards, play them. Your deck won't be terrible, but I'm just trying to optimize and see what we can do to make this deck as good as possible.

[13:28] So, this I'll keep for now. Next up, Fandaniel. Faniel. Teleopay. I I It's the first time where a card I can't read a single word on this card, but Faniel. Okay. Faniel, I think, is the closest word I got. So, Faniel, uh, whenever you cast an instrument or sorcery, Surveil one, again, minimal payoff. It's better than plus one puzzle unblockable, but it's still minimal. At the beginning of your end step, each opponent may sacrifice a non-token creature of their choice. Each opponent who doesn't lose his two life for each instant and sorcery card in your graveyard. This can do a decent amount of damage, but it really depends on our opponent.

[14:10] And see, this one cares about instant sorceries. That makes sense. And then our deck is filled with equipments and aurus. Uh but if we modify this deck to be more instant sorcery based, I can see this card I can see this card being okay. Yeah. So I'll cue this in for now. Again, it's not the best card, but it's synergistic and it's I think it's Reaper Scythe, another equipment. At the beginning of your end start, put a soul counter on this for each player who's lost life this turn. So usually it would be three because of our commander and equipped creature gets plus one plus one for each soul counter on this equipment and it's an assassin.

[14:52] So we're getting plus three and then the turn well the first turn we get nothing. The second turn is plus three and then the turn after we get the equipment that gives plus six. There is synergy but it depends too much on our commander being on the board. We're not really an aggressive beatd down deck from what I can see. And yeah, I don't think this does enough. I don't know. Let's deck transpose. Draw a card then discard card. You don't you have no idea how happy I am to see instant to see an instant or sorcery. Like this is what it should be, right? So we can draw this card and then we get a wizard that pings people and then rebound.

[15:32] Yeah. See, this is the kind of card we want. Arbert, warrior of darkness. Whenever you cast a white spell, put a plus one plus one counter on each legendary. They gain vigilance. Whenever you cast a black spell, put a plus one counter on each legendary. They gain they get menace. Are we Is this an aggro deck? And I'm just misunderstanding everything. I mean, our commander works okay with aggro, right? Our commander is okay with but it's just so much better with spellinger. If we're playing aggro, what's the point of this non creature spell phrase? Yeah, we are. I'm still on the spell slinger hill, but we'll see. We'll see. I'm open to to changing my mind, but for now, this is not not for this deck.

[16:16] EMTT Selch. The third seat spells you cast from your graveyard cost two less to cast. Whenever one or more opponents lose life, you may cast target instant or sorcery from your graveyard. If that spell will be put into your graveyard, exile it instead. Do it once each turn. Yeah, see that's got great synergy with our commander because we cast a spell and our opponents lose life and then we can cast that same spell again from the graveyard, right? Yes. For two less and then we draw a card. So yeah, this see this is the kind of card we're looking for. It's excellent. Estan varino. Whenever you cast non creature spell, put a plus one counter on Estan against flying until the I swear.

[16:59] Okay, I'll finish reading. But at the beginning of your second main phase, you draw X cards and lose X life where X is the number of opponents who were dealt damage by Eston or a dragon this turn. So, we are a dragon deck. Now, again, like I was saying in the other video, they have to do top down design for this set. So, a lot of the legendary creatures, they can't really be, you know, perfect fit for the commander. And also this is I I believe it's one Final Fantasy game per deck. I don't remember what this what game this deck is, but there are lots of creatures you have to represent in a spell in your deck. So, it's definitely difficult to build. But knowing that restriction, it's easier for us to accept that a lot of the cards here don't work.

[17:44] Again, it's like they're trying to trick us into thinking, oh, this is a noncreature spell card, but it's not. It's just it's a it's like an aggro card that is a dragon payoff, but it's an elf warrior. Yeah. So, this is not not going to work with our deck. Hild de Brand Hilda Brand Manders Veil It's got adventure. Create a black zombie token. And once he comes out, he comes back from the adventure, you get creature tokens you control, get plus one plus one. When Hilderbrand Mandavville dies, you may cast it from your graveyard as an adventure until the end of your next turn.

[18:28] it's not great. I mean, it's kind of a creature token payoff. Right now, we have four token cards, token making cards. If we see another five or six, we can be like, "Okay, this is a Spellinger token stack, which has some synergy, unlike the Spellinger equipments or enchantment stack." So, we're going to put this in maybe, but he might come back. Might have a use. Krill Baldesen lifelink. Whenever you cast an uncreature spell, you may return target creature card with mana value equal to that spell's mana value from your graveyard to your hand. do this only once each turn.

[19:08] Uh, it sounds good, but again, we are not a creatures deck. We're cutting a lot of creatures. So, and we have to have the exact same mana value. It can't be It's not that mana value or lower. So, what's the chance of Yeah, I don't think this will be doing enough in our deck. Yeah, I'll leave this aside for now. for now. If it in the end it turns out that all of our spells are like two, three, four mana and all of our creatures are two, three, four, then sure. Especially if we have a lot of four mana spells, maybe we can use this to return our commander, but the use seems pretty So maybe next up, lice hex.

[19:51] Non-creature spells cost one less to cast prowess. As long as you've cast two or more non-creature spells this turn, lice hex has double strike. again this trap. And why would we want a a big double strike creature in a spellinger deck? We're killing our opponents with our commander. We don't need a 44 double strike. But then reducing the cost of non-creature spells is fine. It's fine. But when it comes to cost reduction, we have way better tools. Like we have enchantments and artifacts that are four mana, right? That can trigger our commander. Why would we want a creature that does it?

[20:33] It's a decent blocker, but I don't think Yeah, I don't think that we might be cutting 20 cards here. Maybe more than 20 cards. I hope not. Whenever you cast creature spell, papo total deals one damage to each opponent and you gain one life. Again, what was I saying earlier? This is I This is not the worst one. It's okay, but it's still not a great payoff. sacrifice papal limo to limo. Each opponent who lost life this turn sacrifices a creature with the greatest power among creatures you control. So, it's a removal. See, it seems good. It seems good, but is this better than just casting a three mana spell that what's it called?

[21:14] I forgot the name, but I'll put the card on the on the uh video. Each opponent sacrifices a creature or sacrifices half their creatures. Yeah, you just play a spell and trigger your commander rather than playing a creature that Yeah. Again, they're trying really hard to make these creatures fit. I understand, but it doesn't really work. Uringer Augur route. Whenever you play a land from exile or cast a spell from exile, you gain two life. You can tap to exile the top card of your library and then you can tap to play it. And spells you play this way cost two less to cast. So, it's basically tap to draw, but it takes two turns. Then you get the payoff of it costing two less and you can gain two life.

[21:59] Usually for cards like this, you the buildaround class is the first one. And then the the text after is like he can trigger himself if you have no other cards that trigger it, but it's really inefficient. But none of this looks good. Like we're not playing things for exile. And even if we are, gain two life is not a not a good payoff. And you have to tap twice to get one card in a blue deck. No, this is It just doesn't do enough. And there's no synergy with our commander. Archaers Map. This is Yeah, now we're on to reprints. This is a decent ram spot. It's a pretty good ramp spot, I say. And even though it's not an instant or sorcery, but it triggers our commander, so I think it's fine.

[22:42] It's reasonable. Authority of the consoles. This is a very annoying card. It gains us life, but it doesn't do anything other than that. Like your opponents are slightly annoyed. They might attack you more, but it doesn't work with anything we're doing at the moment. It doesn't even work with our creatures entering. Say if we're going for tokens. So, it's a good card. It's a It's a decent card, but not for this deck. Cleansing Nova, an excellent board wipe to play. Yeah, very flexible creatures or artifacts and enchantments. We definitely need need lots of board wipes in this deck. Final judgment, not the best board wipe. I mean, especially considering how far is a theme, but I think it's serviceable.

[23:26] It's never bad to exile. I mean, we have way better options now in black and white, but again, this not a bad card, so we'll keep it in for now. Yeah. See, this is the kind of payoff that is that is good enough, right? Whenever you cast a copy in instrument or sorcery, draw a card. Yeah. Not plus one plus not deal one damage draw a card. This is the kind of payoff we Solid dig through time. Eight mana Yeah, beautiful. What's nice is that our legendary creatures care about mana value, not the cost paid or the mana paid, which is very abusable. And they threw time is one of the best cards for that.

[24:06] Right of replication. Yeah, for spelling decks, we need win conditions and this is a decent way to win the game. Pick the best creature on the board. Get five copies of it late game. Can definitely finish a mid-powered Sublime Epiphany. This is Oh, yeah. This is one of the best spelling cards. It's made for commander. Six mana. Do everything. Yeah, this is sweet. See, the reprints are quality, but what the new cars, you can see they are, their hands are tied when they made the new cards. Torrential Gearhulk. Beautiful. Excellent card. Cru crux of fate. Less beautiful.

[24:47] We are not a dragon stack. Again, if we flip five, six dragons for for the next half. Okay, I will stand corrected, but we are not a dragon stack. And no, we'll play better board wipes. Lethal scheme. Destroy target creature or planes walker. Each creature convoke. Oh, it's got convoke. Okay, I guess convoke is nice cuz we we can make some tokens. Again, not the best removal, but serviceable and I can see it being okay in this deck. Next up, Murderous Rider. Also an okay removal. I'm not sure why they feel the need to attack on a creature. They feel the need to play adventure because this the creature side doesn't even trigger our commander.

[25:32] Doesn't even trigger the two spells a turn. So, we're just playing this for the removal, which is a decent removal. Like, I'll keep it in, but doesn't make too much sense. Billful tricks also doesn't make sense, but it's just never bad to have two mana, enter draw a card, and it will block for you cuz usually when you're spelling your deck, your opponents are pressuring you and billful tricks will block will basically keep all the large creatures away unless they want to trade. So, this is Yeah, you're never sad to see this card. Solid. Vindicate, excellent removal, but sorcery speed is a strike. We are in the best removal colors, I'd say. So, no, this is not good enough.

[26:15] For example, see, void rent is a solid removal. Destroy pretty much anything and can't be countered. Yeah, this is what we're looking for in Coveted jewel. What? Why are we playing this? Like we're not amazing at defending Yeah, I don't like we don't need the card draw and we have better mana rocks, right? We're in blue. We have better ways to draw cards than something this risky. So, we're fine. Yeah, we're not playing this tome of Legends. Again, we are in blue.

[26:55] We don't need to draw cards by sending our two four commander into the red zone. Yeah, just to pay one and draw two. Draw one. Yeah. Again, we're in blue. We don't need to play these cards. Okay, let's skip the lands for now. Move on to non lands. White oright four mana. When it enters, exile something. I don't think this does enough. It's a temporary on a mana rock, but four mana mana rock. I I don't think this is good enough. Yeah, we have way better rocks to play.

[27:39] Another equipment. Two mana equipment. Excellent synergy. That was sarcasm, by the way. Don't don't listen to that. Equip creature gives plus one plus O has whenever this creature attacks, untap target attacking creature. We are. Yeah, we're attacking our vigilance commander, right? So, why why are we doing equipments? Yeah, right now I think I feel confident enough to dump all these Well, not this one, but all of the equipments into the cut pile. And let's see how far how many cuts we have right now. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 13 14 15 16 17 20 cuts already.

[28:21] Once again, I want to say if you like the characters, if you like the deck, keep it together by all means. No problems. But this deck needs a major overhaul to try to come even close to uh to the potential of this of this commander. This is a really powerful commander and yeah, we want to make build the d deck around this theme. So that's what we're going to try to do. Yeah, I think a rebuild is in line. Circle of Power. Draw two, lose two, create a wizard. Yeah, this is solid. Cut a deal. Each opponent draws a card, then you draw a card. For each opponent who draw a card this way, we are in blue black. There's literally a black card that says each opponent discard a card.

[29:05] You draw a card for each card discarded this way. I'll put it on the screen. Why are we We just straight up swap this for that, right? Lingering souls. I get it. It triggers our opponent our commander twice, but also triggers our opponent twice, but it doesn't do enough. Doesn't do enough, I don't think. Swords to polishers, excellent removal. Although in this deck, maybe I will I prefer high mana cost removals, but swords is never bad, I guess. So, it's fine. It's also sweet art. Hypnotic sprite. Instant adventure counter target spell with mana value and then it's a two mana.

[29:50] Why are we playing adventure Why? There's no reason. We also have what? Cast from exile sub team. We have five sub team themes teams in this deck. No, we're not playing this counter spell. There are way better counter spells to play into the story. Seven mana. This spell costs three less if an opponent has seven or more cards in the This usually is fine in the late game. In the mid game, your opponents usually have seven cards on the graveyard, even if we're not actively milling them. So, I think this is fine. There are a better draw spells again. But I think this is serviceable and it's kind it's kind of synergistic with our big spell theme. Although, we only have one card that kind of triggers off big that cares about the mana value, I think.

[30:35] But it's a fine card. Yeah, We again are not great at defending ourselves. Our two for vigilance commander. We can't hold the fort by oursel. So propaganda is a great card to play. People usually don't want to pay the two especially if they're going Bastion of remembrance. Okay. So this is a tokens card. We'll put that in the tokens pile. Did we also just cut a tokens card? We might make a little pile for tokens. Yeah, this is a tokens card. No, it's not a good one. But and I guess all these equipments kind of make one token, but no, it's not that's not how it works. Exangun, excellent big spell for draining our opponents.

[31:17] Uh it's mostly useful for gaining life, but it can finish games in the end. And yeah, just a really solid difficult to cut. Snuff out. I mean, there are better removals, but our commander kind of pays for this life life payment. And at the same time, it's nice to be able to cast three spells because we want two spells a turn. So, I can see why this is in the deck. It's not great. Later, we might cut it, but for now can stay. Oh, see, there it is. Yeah, I was talking about this card. I guess there's no need to put put it on the on the on the video anymore. Yeah, each other player discards a card.

[31:58] You draw a card for each card. this card this way. In blue and black, you have so many excellent draw spells. Yeah, we're not going to play a white draw spell. So, aside from mind, go in. Definitely. Okay, on to ramp. Arcane signate. Relic of legends. Sure. Soaring. Okay. Talisman. Talisman. Seems good. Thought vessel to keep our hand. Okay. And then we were on to lands. Not much to say about lands, I think. Anything special here? Okay. Land destruction. Not sure we need evolving wells in this kind of deck. Just play a basic. It's better probably. Path of ancestry. This is in every deck. Not sure why.

[32:38] I guess we're all mostly What are we cats in this deck? Not sure. Temple of the false god. Yeah, they have the same lands in every deck. I'm not sure about the land choice. They could have put more a little more thought and put in more specific lands. But again, for lens, the primary use is manifixing. And the mana fixing in these decks are decent. I think they're solid. There isn't a dire need to upgrade the land base. Scavenger grounds. Great. Yeah. So, we are fine. All right. Let's take a quick look at the basics. I think it's the same ones. Yeah, they're cool. Hero token. Hero token. Colorless hero. Hero wizard. Bird.

[33:19] Cool. Okay, let's open our pack and then we will Whoops. We'll sort the deck. Add card Esperus to Magisite and Alphanod Leveler. Cool. Cool. All right, we'll be back. All right, here we have the cards separated. And uh here are the cards we ended up cutting. Unfortunately, we have to cut 25 cards. Some of the token stuff, some of the equipments, and just cards that are not impactful enough. And I have no idea some cards why why they're in the deck. Yeah. So, a pretty big overhaul. And here are the pile.

[33:59] Here's the pile that's left. And lands. We've got 37 of these. It's fine. 37 lands. These are untouched. And next up is kind of the core of the deck. Spell slingers. Payoffs. Yeah, the cards that are We've got a few here. And next up, draw spells. One, two, three, four, five, six. We ended up keeping six cross spells. We will need a lot more just because in a control deck, you're constantly exchanging resources and you will have spare mana, right? There there will be times where you don't have to use your mana. And our goal is to turn any spare mana into a instant speed And spot removals, I guess, answers.

[34:44] Here we have yeah, five spot removals along with this one, which is like a spot removal and a counter spell. It's excellent. And then two board wipes. We'll need more spot removals just because we don't really build a board super well. So, we need to keep things down. And at the same time, board wipes we need more of. Two is not enough. Ramp. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Eight pieces. We're not adding ramp per se, but we're adding land tax effects. You will see. Uh, Then finishers got right of replication, got King Mog, and Exanguinate. Honestly, this is pretty weak. We need to add some finishers to this deck.

[35:25] We can't just depend on our commander to close out the game. It's too slow. And once you're in control, everyone will be gunning for you. And no matter how good your deck is, it will be difficult to do a archeneemy. So, we'll put in some finishers. And just here's some generic utility. All right, let's take a look first, I guess, at the quoteunquote ramp spells. I put in land tax and weather wfairer. Now, these two are, I'd say, kind of staples in decks that are white and not green, just because hitting your land drops is more important than ramp. Yeah, the mana value of basically hitting a land drop is somewhere between two to three mana. It's worth that much. So, if you can just get lands with these, never miss a land drop, then it's way better than any ramp spell can possibly do.

[36:10] So, we're adding these to the light ramp pile. And next up, card draw. Just some of the best instant speed card draw spells. We've got Oh, this is not card draw. But here, Mystic Confluence is counter spell and a card draw, but I put it in the card draw category because I think most of the time you will be drawing. Don't counter something just for the sake of it. Draw three. You know, when there's something worth countering, you can target it, but usually I wouldn't counter something unless I have to. Una's Grace is kind of interesting because uh it's not efficient. It's really inefficient, but you can keep casting it from your graveyard, especially with some of the cost reducers. You can keep doing it and trigger your commander over and over and over.

[36:53] So, this is quite a special card that works in this deck. Uh, right here. Oops. This goes here. And pull from tomorrow. Just a classic. Usually, you can fire it off for a fair bit in the mid game. This will refill your hand. Treasure cous. Cuz we're not doing too much with our graveyard. So, we have we have uh what's it called? The other exile. Oh, slipping my mind. I'll find it. We have dick through time. Yes. And treasure cruise. That's it. There should be plenty of cards for us to delve. So, usually just one mana draw three. Two mana draw three. Commander Insight. Now, this is three blue for the base cost, but the X will usually be plus one just because you've cast your commander once.

[37:36] And late game, it can be a lot more. And lastly, Sphinx is revelation. Life game is important when you can do life and card draw. Why not? You can see I have a lot of these uh late game draw spells to make sure that we are not all. We're never alast unwind. This is the kind of counter spell that fits this deck, I believe, because it doesn't really cost mana, right? You can just use it, trigger your commander, and then untap to prepare for the next spell. Yeah, you can unwind, untap everything, and then cast a removal. And now you're getting an extra card draw from our commander. And uh here are the answers. And next we have excise the imperfect.

[38:18] This card is not seeing a lot of play. Maybe because of the double white mana isn't really an issue here I believe especially white mana but uh just being able to exile pretty much anything and what you give them is minimal. Yeah. So this is a really versatile removal that triggers our commander and generous gift. similar uh I think it's arguably I mean can destroy lands so I I'd say but it doesn't excel so it's a lot on par with excise they're both really good and trigger arch matter stroke of midnight a little worse but still good enough and lastly anguish making so yeah we're trying to putting three mana ones that are versatile so that we not only get to remove something anything we need to and also get a commander trigger next for board wipes first one is Yeah, this is one of the better instant speed kind of board wipes where you don't have to because board wipes are proactive and that's not ideal because you don't know who your opponents are attacking.

[39:19] But for this, you can wait till you're sure you know they're attacking you, then you fire it off and that's super effective. And alongside this, there's also route for a similar board wipe. Where's my Oh, it's fine. Uh alongside etheriz route is also an excellent instant speed option. This in a pinch you can cast it for five mana but ideally you hold up seven mana and wait for your opponents to act first. See what they do then decide if you need to wipe because these word wipes they kill your commander. So ideally but but there will be worse that there will be boards that need to be wiped. So this is for when that happens. Farewell the best word wipe clears everything. When your opponents are just gumming up the board, it's not efficient for us to take down their permanence one by one.

[40:03] Just clear everything. Graveyard, artifacts, creatures. Yeah, not much to say about farewell. Tragic arrogance. I like because we can keep our commander, but at the same time, if your opponents have multiple permanence of the same type, they're keeping the worst. So, usually this is a clean wipe for your opponents. Yeah, they get one permanent, but but it's not much. It's not going to be much. And next up, destroy the dead. I like this one because it's kind of like blasphemous act where the cost is usually reduced to double white. Yeah, usually when a board is worth wiping, it's going to cost double white. So that you can cast this and then be the first to rebuild. Okay, once we've got all the answers, there's a lot of answers, I know, but that's kind of how this deck usually plays.

[40:47] We've got some of the miscellaneous utility good stuff and finishers. Now, Primal Amulet is is the cost reducer I I choose because it's four mana. It is none creature and uh it's got a pretty nice upside where you can flip it and it turns into a land that can copy spells. Yeah. So, late game, this can win you the game when you when you combine it with some of the other win conditions. This goes here. Actually, utility goes here. And font of magic. Yeah, this can reduce our spells by a fair bit. one, two, sometimes three. Hopefully not more than that because then we probably won't be casting our commander. We won't be able to access our commander again.

[41:28] But yeah, this is one of the better cost Next up, some of the win conditions. Tolerance Sky Summoner. This is what a spell slinger payoff should look like, right? Just basic four mana. Every spell gets you a two two flying. Excellent for defense, excellent for offense. Not much to say. So, finishers and also Shard Typhoon is this is a bit difficult to see, but I'll put a clearer version on the on the video and yeah, it's a excellent payoff. This also cares about mana value rather than the mana you spent. So, all the big spells you cheat are excellent with this. Next up, Ink Shield featuring Sheldon Meery.

[42:10] is one of the perfect defense cards that can turn into a win condition. Yeah, if your opponent wants to alpha strike you with a greater hoof, you know, the second best play would be to to etherize with etherize, but the best play is in shield where you fog protect yourself and the back swing will be lethal for And debt to the death list. If you're playing Zangunate, you got to play debt. This is just better in late game. This can drain everyone for 10 15 uh life. And even if it doesn't kill people, this will drag you back into the game. You are back in the driver's seat. And lastly, a few cards that are like cheat codes with our commander.

[42:50] First of all, Yeah. When you enchant this onto where's our commander? Onto our commander. Every three CMC or higher spell you cast becomes draw how many? Draw three. Yeah, it comes draw three, which is ridiculous value. With this on your commander, you are protecting this combination at all costs and you this will win you the game. And the last card is one that I don't have right now, but it's called Helm of the Gast Lord. I believe it's a similar effect to Curiosity. I'll put it on the screen and it says whenever the enchanted creature deals damage to an opponent, that opponent discards a card and you draw a card.

[43:32] Yeah. And with this with Yota is just a ridiculous. I believe that card shot up in price since the spoiler of Yota, but it's not too too expensive right now, so it's fairly reasonable. And this is the deck we have. It's a fairly strong control deck. And I I have to admit, I did put in a lot of control pieces. And as you play with your group, if this is turning out to be too oppressive, you can absolutely switch out some of the answers for cards you like. But for now, I think this is a good base to start with so that and then you can adjust, you can uh yeah, you can change the cards. You can put in some pet cards based on the power level you want to uh you want to achieve. But I think this will have a pretty good chance against the other precons as is.

[44:15] Yeah, that's all for this deck. Next up, we have Cloud the Limit Break deck. So, please like and subscribe and let me know if you enjoy this kind of content. Should I make more or should I go back to making kind of video essay videos? All right, see you.
