# EDH is More FUN When You Are the Threat
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/gU9fEeOVgJw
date: 2026-06-22 | views: 12,062 | likes: 363 | comments: 116 | length: 8:09 | words: 1,628 | wpm: 200.1
chapters: 0:00 The "Trick" to Winning; 1:35 Finding Meaning in EDH; 3:55 How to Be the Threat
tags: EDH, MTG, Commander, Deckbuilding

[0:00] I played EDH wrong for years. In the early days, I remember looking up how to win games, listening to podcasts, and one advice I got was to always lay low, pretend to be harmless, and let others fight it out. And when they're done, I swoop in for a victory. And most importantly, play a deck that can allow us to do that. Accumulating resources early for big explosive boom booms late. The podcast was called Competitive Cast. Some older players might remember. It was a time when magic content wasn't nearly as widely available, but I dug and I found it. The secret techniques. And I was going to tell none of my friends. They didn't listen to EDH podcasts. They had lives. So, for months, my games looked like this.

[0:41] "Wee, I have nothing. Don't target me." Cultivate. "Wee, look, I still have no board." End of turn Blue Sun's Zenith for eight. "Wee, I drew all lands, though." End of turn Cyclonic Rift on top of Avenger of Zendikar with five counter spells back up. "Oh, surprise, I took that one. Close game, guys." Pretty quickly, though, it became boring. And that's the truth about EDH, the format. Winning should be rare. With four players, your base chance is 25%. Adding variance, and you can easily go entire sessions without a single victory. And that should be the norm. If you want to win noticeably more, you probably have to push your percentage closer to 40 or higher. And that number comes directly at someone else's expense.

[1:22] So, if winning is your only goal, Commander might not be the right game. Now, this sounds stupid simple, but it took me a while to figure out. Here's the not-so-simple part. So, if we aren't measuring success in the format by wins, what do we use? How do we get better at a game we like to think is skill-based? And this is where we bring in the F word. Fun. But this is the other extreme. Fun is impossible to quantify. I played in groups where everyone just showed up to exhibit their weirdest deck builds from half tribal to 12-piece Rube Goldberg machines. Everyone just jer uh jerk uh juggled their pieces for everyone else to see. Yes, juggled. And in the end, the winner might as well be selected at random. That can certainly be fun.

[2:03] But it turns the game into a toy, a shared experience without a clear competitive goal. And I wasn't a fan of that, either. So, the happy medium had to be found. Now, did you know that the average Magic player has an attention span of 4.7 seconds? So, while I still have yours, I want to talk about my sponsor, Card Kingdom Power TCG. They make excellent boxes, sleeves, dice, all of that. And I approached them for this sponsorship cuz I was just a huge fan of their aesthetics. So, yeah, take a look at their site. And if you like the stuff, use my code levels, all caps, for a discount. So, where was I? Happy medium. Yes, because we still wanted to win, but I've come to believe that what truly matters is how we win.

[2:44] This is a useful metric because it applies just as well when we lose. How did we lose? Commander, to me, is a lot like a single-player video game. Beating the game on the easiest difficulty is simple. But if you stay there, just crushing your opponents over and over and over, you never grow. The real challenge, the real satisfaction, comes from getting better. And in this case, achieving the same goal, but adding difficulties and restrictions. And as I mentioned, I got bored of Simic pretty quickly, but the small being mentality stuck around for much longer. I laid low and played into politics like everyone else until I tried aggro. Which, for the longest time, I didn't think was an option in EDH. I remember opening an Aurelia, the War Leader, in the Gatecrash pre-release, and it changed everything.

[3:29] She gave aggro decks the ability to finish games. Pop down threats, see the fear in my opponent's eyes, set up for Aurelia, and watch my board get wiped. Yeah, that deck didn't win a lot of games, but I noticed it was an enjoyable experience almost every game. Win or lose, at least I did something, and I always posed a threat. And that wasn't always the case with a lot of my other decks. So, that flicked a switch. No more small bean. We walk into the room, slam dick onto the table, and force everyone to deal with us. When we win is against all odds, and when we lose, it'll feel like a boss fight for our opponents. Now, of course, to get to this point, it took a fair bit of trial and error.

[4:10] Even just achieving the average 25% win rate is quite an accomplishment with how we're choosing to play. And today, we'll be going over how to get there. Let's start with the traditional aggro decks. Now, this is by no means a comprehensive guide to playing aggressive, but the core philosophy is fairly simple. We start off guns blazing, not that we're able to win or even kill anyone from that, but the goal is to chip out opponents' life totals enough to force them into playing the game a little bit differently. Maybe chump blocking with an utility creature or thinking twice before drawing an extra card with Underworld Connections, but we fall off pretty quickly after this initial surge, and what happens after requires some careful engineering. Specifically, we want to catch our opponents with surprises.

[4:52] It can come in many different forms, the most direct being these doubling and tripling spells that turn a manageable board into lethal, or a protection spell in response to a board wipe that our opponents are banking on, or the late game combo of Flash and Haste. Nearly every opponent in every deck will have a shields down moment, and exploiting that moment usually means securing a kill and possibly the game. And if there happens to be another aggro or beatdown deck, make sure to threat assess properly. Most of the time, they aren't your enemy yet. The turtling combo decks are. Voltron is similar in that at first, you probably don't want to take out one player too quickly, even if you can, for the sake of play experience. So, I generally try to keep each opponent at just above one.

[5:35] Say our commander is a 6/6, we won't be setting our opponents to above 12 commander damage. Try to keep them from feeling the immediate threat and kill with surprises when the need arises. It's definitely tricky to navigate, For a slightly easier time, we can take advantage of some of these ridiculous legends that hit like a truck, but also refund you some value. With commanders like Bruna, Cloud, and Jin-Gitaxias, you'll never worry about over-committing because you recoup your cards and more. And speaking of recouping your cards, well, it turns out Civic also happens to be one of the best beatdown colors for its ability to keep the gas flowing through board wipe after board wipe after board wipe. One of my favorite decks of all time is Prime Speaker Zegana playing the double homesteaders and using Arc Mage to recoup all that lost card advantage.

[6:18] All while firing off big ramp spells in between to set up for mid to late game. And once we're set, your opponents are not keeping your board empty. Farewell in response tapping those for 10 mana and Genesis Wave for eight at the end of turn with the help of Alchemist's Refuge. If you've ever played against the horde magic decks, this feels a lot like that. Just waves and waves of relentless beats. Colors and commanders that can provide this constant stream of resources is rare. An alternative is decks that can scale with the format. Enable for fast enough kills even with three opponents and thus able to justify going all or nothing. The prime example of this is token decks going wide plus mass pump is basically the textbook definition of scaling to the format.

[7:00] But there's also commanders that provide this kind of reach. Arabella is a personal favorite, effectively tripling the damage you can do with one power weenies. Mishra does something similar. Also look for commanders that can double and double again, whether it's going tall or wide. And last but not least, we have the group slug strategies. Decks like Sofium, Croxa, and Mogis. At first, your opponents may be alerted, but different decks want the table to be at different life totals, and it isn't always 40. So you may eventually be able to find like-minded individuals or even temporary allies. This also applies to the play style as a whole. As a play group matures, it will learn to fairly assess and even appreciate proactive decks. Because we are the ones who toss out questions and demand answers, keeping the dirty decks in check and setting a limit on how far they can go with their greed.

[7:47] This is by no means a comprehensive guide but hopefully will set you on the right path to being the big bad in your group. This is Jin with next level commander. Thank you for If you like this kind of content like and subscribe. I usually do tech talks but sometimes I talk about the format and also check out my sponsor Kakapopo use my code levels all caps and I'll see you in my next video.
