# I Found a Vivi Alternative for 20¢
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/gVuQshGgjh4
date: 2025-06-12 | views: 2,076 | likes: 47 | comments: 8 | length: 7:05 | words: 1,455 | wpm: 206.1

[0:00] Hello everyone, how are you? This is Jin from Next Level Commander and today we have a legend that delivers the VV experience for 300th of the price. Now, a few weeks ago, I made a video talking about a budget build around VV ornate. I went through the deck list to make sure everything is bulk. I double and triple checked except for one minor negligence. Now, there's been a lot of negativity around VV lately. The price, the power, wizards pushing it just a little too far. And within the span of weeks, Vivv went from one of the most beloved characters in Final Fantasy to the representation of everything people disliked about this set. I also didn't like the fact that the commander for my budget brute costs more than the rest of the deck.

[0:41] So, I went and found an alternative. Same cost, similar stats, and can be just as annoying for your opponents with a day and night trigger if you choose to constantly remind them. Now, the more relevant text here, though, is that as Vldrich grows, he will reduce the cost of all your instance and sorceries. While reducing every spell by one or two mana is quite significant in a storm build, I still don't think he's able to come close to Vive for that. But for the deck that we brainstormed, Vdrich can definitely fill the role. Maybe even better in some aspects. Now, the idea is to use the most efficient palm spells on Valdrich to give a large temporary boost and after that cast some massive draw spell to refill our hand and then attack for the win with our still enlarged commander.

[1:25] Normally allin voltron decks like this face the problem of taking someone out of the game fast and then doing nothing afterwards cuz you're out of gas. It's quite an unfun play pattern for you and the unfortunate victim. But in the case of Valdrich or Vive, we are refilling our hands as we kill and we pretty much never run out of gas. Now, let's take a quick look at the selection of pump spells. And Valrich actually has an advantage here because of his ability. We want to play cards that have at least one colorless cost because it's always reduced. This allows us to play the more powerful, more impactful pump spells compared to Vivvie for the same mana cost. But at the same time, we are also limited by pips cuz those are not reduced.

[2:06] So, we have to prioritize spells that are low in color costs. All right, here are some of the pump spells. As you can see, for one extra mana, we get a little more value. Sometimes it's extra pump, for example, antagonize or screaming fury. Or sometimes we get cards like haste magic where we can potentially play an extra card or also you come to the null camp where it can be a pump spell or some evasion in a pinch. I try to prioritize the spells that gave trample because it also serves as evasion. Next up, we have pump spells that are just a little bit more complicated. No, Ancestors Aid pumps only for two, but gives us a treasure token, which refunds us the one mana spent. And also cards like Rush of Blood and Unleash Fury, the doublers, they are terrible as the first pump spell, but when combined with others, they can deliver a value way higher than their mana cost.

[2:55] The X pump spells serve similar role. They're almost like doublers as well. At the same time, fist of fling. Again, early is not good, but after you pump your commander and fire off a huge draw spell, the fist can easily pump for seven or eight while replacing itself. Now, the blue ones are the most interesting here. They do not work with each other in multiples, but as the first pump spell, they are excellent value while providing some extra utility, whether it's hexroof or evasion. These are really nice to see in the opening hand. Now that we have our commander sitting at 7788, it's time to look at part two, the best cards for refilling our hands. And as you can see, the only thing I looked for in these extra spells is the amount of colored costs.

[3:36] The lower the better. One, two is acceptable, but any more than that is not making the cut. Now, the nonext draw spells are not worth playing with one exception, the ones that can pay for themselves. Tazar's Gambit is the worst one here being free. And every other draw spell here is actually a ritual either ramping us with treasures or untapping lands. And now that we have a massive commander and just drew seven cards, what we're going to look for in those seven cards are the evasion spells and finishers. And for evasion spells is fairly straightforward. If Vagic doesn't already have flying or trample from the pump spells, we give it unblockable. And here I chose the ones that can either be used multiple times or replace themselves. Throw in some finishers like double strike or extra combat and you probably have a dead opponent and also a full grip of cards to kill the next one and the next one.

[4:25] Yeah, just follow these steps. Easy as 1, two, three, four, five, six. But that's not it because we need some protection spells to round things out. Eventually, your opponents learn about your deck through, I don't know, dying and they know that they have to remove magic at all costs. So, we have eight spells here, mostly giving hex proof. My favorite one here is actually fleeting reflection. It's a decent protection spell, but later on it can be also used as a pump spell depending on what your opponents have. And lastly, to round things out with our non-land cards, we have ramp. Starting with some budget mana rocks, we only play the two mana ones cuz we want to drop it early and then have our commander on turn three with protection mana. And also, there are some interesting lategame ones.

[5:07] The first one being Brass's bounty. This was before they discovered tapped treasures. So as long as our commander is decently large, this can easily be a ritual for four or five mana. And also path the pyromancer. Usually when we have a massive hand after a draw spell, we are short on mana. And just pay one more red to cast this and suddenly you have a full grip still. But eight more mana to use. And make sure to insist that everyone does the voting part even though it does nothing. Never miss a chance for chaos. And these are all the non-land cards. The lands are actually super simple because in this deck we don't want any colorless land or any land that enters tapped. That limits our option. We just want manifixing.

[5:47] No utility, no strip mine, no nothing. All the cheap two-color lands. And pick a basic land art that you like for a total of 37 lands. And that is our deck. The budget is $50 and the play pattern is, I'd say, fairly simple. Although sometimes you do have to make decisions on when to pull the trigger. For example, Valri, you can cast them on turn three, but you have to kind of assess the table. Do they have removals? Is it safe? Do I cast Valdick on turn three or turn four with one mana for protection? Which opponent do I attack first? The one who opened with a soul ring? The one who's more explosive later or the one who wins that my body odor when we sat down? I mean, we've got some decisions to make, but not too many.

[6:27] And for $50, this deck has been tearing my group apart. Bracket two, bracket three, doesn't matter. If your opponents fail to interact early, the moment you get your first large Valdic turn, it becomes more and more difficult for them to stop you. And lastly, if you do manage to open a VV and want to play that instead, there are some changes to make, but not too many. We replace the two mana pump spells here with the one mana ones and also add in some VV specific cards like Curiosity. And that's all for our deck tech. If you like this content, please like and subscribe for more. And if not, I'd love a comment telling me what kind of content you'd rather see. I'll do anything. I'll see you later.
