# How to Evaluate Magic Cards (in EDH)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/Hlo-Vu9Ws7o
date: 2025-06-25 | views: 1,589 | likes: 66 | comments: 14 | length: 13:06 | words: 2,466 | wpm: 188.4
tags: edh, commander, mtg, finalfantasy, edgeofeternities

[0:00] The year is 2025 and we're getting a lot of Magic cards. A lot. While it's exciting to look at the endless spoilers, at the same time, us commander players have to use our massive brains more than ever. Is this card good? Does it go into my deck? We have to repeat this process for every card that looks even remotely possible to not miss any sweet tech. This is Jyn with Next Level Commander and today we are going to look at some new Final Fantasy cards and also one new spoiler from Edge of Eternities. We'll go through the evaluation process together to see how to look at these new cards. First, we do the easy part, the familiar. No, not reprints, but actually most spoilers fall into this category.

[0:43] If you think a new card is something you've never seen before, just look closer and squint harder. It's like the joke, everything is kicker, except it's kind of true. is not really a joke. Magic only has so much design space and however creative a new mechanic is, you can usually find a reference from the past. Plot is like for except you pay all the cost up front. Rooms are like partner with except you get to choose which one to play first. Now, this is a good thing because it gives us an anchor to figure out if something is worth including along with or instead of an older card that works in our decks. Finding the right anchor is like 90% of my card evaluation work. But there are also some traps that I sometimes fall into, which I'll talk about later.

[1:26] Let's start simple. Pew pew UFO. This is easy because it's a strict upgrade over Walking Atlas, which isn't the best card, but still sees play in plenty of decks that care about Landfall or draws a lot of cards or both. So, the process is, do you play Walking Atlas? If you do, play this instead. And then do you have another card in the deck that you'd cut for Walking Atlas? Okay, now something a bit more complicated. Summon Fener. Now it's a decent body with ramp, a small pump, and potentially a card draw if Fener sticks around. And at the end, Fener sacks itself. Usually with sagas, we evaluate them by the first ability because that's the one nearly guaranteed to trigger.

[2:08] The further down, the less certain we are. Three turns is a long time in commander. And for this one, we are fortunate that the first ability also happens to be the most powerful and relevant. The card will be much more difficult to evaluate if the ramp ability was on say chapter 2. But as is, we can draw a direct parallel to Far Haven Elf. Now, this is a great magic card, a staple even in many ETV decks. Fenware isn't quite the same as it isn't actually an enter the battlefield ability, but for most lists, it's just as good, if not better. For example, my Git Rock Ravenous Ride deck cares about creatures powers and this would be close to a strict upgrade.

[2:48] Now, moving on to cards that are more side grades of past magic cards. These are more common and can be difficult to evaluate. Live stream's blessing. We are no stranger to this effect. Riskards Expertise, Return of the Wild Speaker. These are some of the most powerful green cards, but Liveream's blessing does something different. Draw equal to the greatest power among creatures you controlled. as you cast this spell. This line is huge. I mean, the only way your opponents can stop this is with a counter spell removals. Not even a psychonic rift can stop you from drawing the cards. The moment you cast this, the number is locked in. And at the same time, the forell ability is also massive. It's just adding one to the total cost.

[3:30] Since you're probably not going to cast this on your turn anyways, you get to gain 10 to 20 life easily, and this can be even more relevant than the card draw in certain situations. But the other two predecessors do have their upsides. Do you want that free spellcast or the board pump over what liveream's blessing is doing? For example, in a Michael tyrant deck, I might want return of the wild speaker because while I'm going tall, I'm also making a lot of tokens and return can be used as a finisher. Also, I have a prime speaker deck that is focused on beating down with mana efficient fatties. Enrichar's expertise will allow me to refill my hand without skipping a beat on applying board pressure. Let's look at a few others.

[4:10] Cloud's limit break is very far off if you compare it to the best removals in the format. But if your deck operates mostly at instant speed, the six mana mode can draw some loose comparisons to etherites. Now, this really is a side grid because they're not even the same colors. But in blue white decks that play etheres, I think cloud's limit break also deserves a second look. Mughal's Veiler. This draws comparisons to all the white protection spells, even Archangel Aison at five mana. But the closest comparison I'd say is Grand Crescendo. Grand Crescendo is overall a better card because of versatility. Being able to get the base effect for just two mana is a huge upside, but Mugos does have higher potential ceiling.

[4:52] I guess effectively doubling your board in tokens and can be quite good whether it's in response to a board wipe or just at the end of an opponent's turn. Now, I'll compare this to another new card, restoration magic, and restoration magic seems like a far worse protection spell at five mana. But actually, the curaga tier is the wrong reference point. The correct comparison to make here is tier one against Laurens escape, for example, which is the most popular protection spell in white. We lose the scry one, but being able to protect any permanent and doing it to the entire board sometimes, although inefficiently, more than makes up for it. And after looking at some other alternatives in white and green, also other colors, this restoration magic might just be the best single target protection spell in the entire format.

[5:39] Now, while we're still on the topic of anchoring and reference points, let's talk about some traps in evaluation that can mislead us to over or undervalue certain cards. The example I want to discuss today is Blitz Bomb, the commander sphere side grade, but I think it's a little more complicated. Now, before we dive into that though, I want to ramp up with a very imaginary example. Laura Revealed. Now, this is a very pushed magic card that is anchored to the NVFCs, and it's playable pretty much in every blue deck because we can just mindlessly swap out an island. Now, take a look at this imaginary card. Island cycling three worse, but the spell is a six- mana instant. And for the sake of argument, draw seven.

[6:22] Now, this is a ridiculous card and it's probably much better than Laurian revealed. However, we can't really make the comparison because despite appearing similar, they are completely different cards. Our imaginary card is a draw spell, a crazy push one at that, but it should never replace Laurian Revealed in any deck because it won't always be a land when you need it to be. Now, what if we have something in between? Island Cycling two five mana instant speed draw four. Now, what do we anchor this to? Laurian revealed or the imaginary island Cycling 3 card. Honestly, I'm not sure. But this is also what makes card evaluation fascinating to me. And with that, I want to bring us the only hottake in a video filled with what many might consider common sense.

[7:06] Blissball should not be compared to Commander Sphere. It's actually closer to something like Sun and Blood, a draw spell. Now, this may sound like crazy talk, but I think more imaginary cards may help us see the argument. Now imagine one day universes beyond brings us great ball three mana add one sacrifice this and pay two life to draw three cards and ultra ball the same except we can sacrifice to pay five life to draw five cards now none of us are going to play ultra ball as a mana rock are we heck I'd be even afraid to tap it for mana because if it gets blown up I lose five cards but between commander sphere and ultra ball at which point does it stop being evaluated against mana rocks and is seen as a draw spell instead and my opin opinion is at two cards and that's Bliss Ball.

[7:50] Blissball is a three mana draw too for decks that are desperate for card draw with some upsides and some downsides of course, but I imagine the best use for this would be to power out your expensive commander early and as soon as that purpose is served, crack it. This is completely different than commander sphere, which will serve as a mana rock until you're desperate for a last top deck or a vendal blast gets put on the stack. Why does this matter? because when counting the utility in decks, this can take up a draw slot, but Commander Sphere can't. Now, I can't say if this makes Blaze Ball better or worse than Commander Sphere, but I imagine Commander Sphere can be good in any non-green deck, while Bliss Ball should primarily see play in red and white, especially if your commander costs five or more.

[8:33] Traps like this are actually quite common in Commander. Mihook Massacre and Mihook Massacre 2 are another great example. The original Mihook is a decent Black Sun Xenithk board wipe with a mediocre enchantment attached. When you put the two effects on the same card, it's excellent value and super pushed. But the enchantment itself is the weaker side. Imagine if it was just a two- meta enchantment, you probably wouldn't play this even in Aristocrat decks. However, Miko Massacre 2 is the opposite. It's a solid enchantment, a bit like my KS the unhollowed with a crappy inefficient board wipe attached. And again, why does that matter? Because when evaluating, we have to look at the original Mihook Massacre, like an X spell, but Mihook Massacre 2 as an enchantment.

[9:19] The sequel should only be played in decks that really want that undying effect. Meanwhile, the original can be played in pretty much any black deck, and it's at its best in Aristocrats builds. And the last trap I want to talk about today is a new card from Edge of Eternities, Sera, the Super Void. The immediate comparison I drew is, of course, Grave Pacted. But upon a closer look, this is very different. In a deck with abundant sack fods, Graveact will lock your opponents out of playing creatures for as long as it stays on the board. Meanwhile, our black hole here is closer to a one use spell because keeping it on the board can be extremely difficult. For the supervoid to do anything and stay around, each opponent has to have at least two creatures on the board.

[10:02] And you will never touch their best creatures unless you're willing to let the supervoid go as well. So, in practice, the supervoid is much closer to a one- use board wipe in Aristocrats text. It's got some upsides and downsides. The biggest downside is it is useless when you have no board. And that's kind of when you want to wipe the most. But the upside is flexibility. For example, you can cast it, trigger it after passing the turn, and your opponents won't be casting creatures until your next end step. It comes with many powerful and interesting play patterns, but it is not quite a grave packgrade or even a downgrade. And now we have completed the familiar cards. We are treading into cards that we've never seen territory. And boy, is it treacherous.

[10:44] with the complexity creep. I honestly don't know how to evaluate some of these. I mean, just look at the saga creatures and those where you have to pay a hefty cost to transform them into sagas. Oh, and these ones where you have to choose at random. Honestly, I'm as lost as you are. With no presidents to compare to, these will need to be played to evaluate properly. But where do you play them? Well, like a drowning man, the best I can do is to latch onto any straw I can get. Try to find the strongest, most consistent aspect of a card and try to tie it to a familiar deck or commander. Knights of the Round uh uh it makes tokens, so I mean it overruns, too.

[11:24] I guess it's fine in token decks, but being an eight mana enchantment is also asking to be cheated in. So, Gen and Aminato might be interested. That's all I got. Summon mega sisters. uh choose one at random. I mean, it's a five mana five5 haste. That's a decent base. Looking at the abilities, fight is always useful and placing counters. It seems like a solid card in any aggro beatd down deck or a counters deck. At least the abilities here have some cohesion. But then there's ninja blades, so it makes a ninja, but also loots. I guess maybe in decks that care about dealing damage, but also you want large CMC.

[12:09] So, you will equip this onto maybe an evasive commander. Honestly, I don't know. Last one. Bam. Guardian Seed Academy. Uh I I doubt many decks will play enough towns to reduce the cost even by one consistently. So, it's a land with a mana sync late game. I guess it's fine because I mean it's a land but seven mana to turn this into a vehicle. Where do we want this in a in a vehicle deck? Simic vehicles. I don't know. You can probably feel my sanity waning amidst these over complicated top- down designs. Sometimes I feel like I'm returning to the beginner days of card selection.

[12:50] No logic, just vibes. And honestly, it might not be a bad thing. And do you vibe? Do you find card evaluation to be more and more difficult nowadays? Let me know in the comments. This is Jyn with Next Level Commander. Please like and subscribe. Thank you for watching. I'll see you in the next video.
