# Your Ur-Dragon Deck Has a Top-Heavy Problem (And we fix it)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/hvxg4AtNMrk
date: 2025-07-28 | views: 16,429 | likes: 488 | comments: 77 | length: 9:36 | words: 2,095 | wpm: 218.5
tags: mtg, magictcg, ur-dragon, edh, commander, deck, elder dragon highlander, magic the gathering, dragon, typal, 5 colour

[0:00] If you play the dragon, your deck probably has a top heaviness problem. I fought against my fair share of dragon decks in the past year or so, and almost all of them fall into this trap of having the highest of highs, but also the lowest of lows. What does the most effective dragon deck look like in 2025? I'm here to answer that for you. This is Jyn with Next Level Commander, and today we are taking on the challenge of building the strongest and most disciplined air dragon deck. You've heard the phrase, too much of a good thing is a bad thing, right? It really applies to typical commanders. Most of them are lucky to just scrape together enough playables. But then there's the dragon players. Man, you kids are spoiled. This deck gets bombs in every new set, plus entire product lines built just for dragons every few years.

[0:43] And I get it. It's hard to say no to that. And that's why the typical Earth Dragon deck ends up as a pile of mythic fatties constantly swapping out old classics for whatever flashy new dragon showed up this year. It looks exciting, but it leads to bloat and worse inconsistency. You end up oscalating between massive wind war blowouts and games where you barely get to do anything. I mean, there's nothing wrong with that. You're playing dragon typo. That's peak Timmy. And no one's going to stop you from slamming the Bahamas and ancient brass dragons. But if you're looking for a more consistent and effective play experience, something that still feels epic without being all or nothing, stick around. We'll be building the dragons around the game plan rather than the other way around. Our game plan is simple. We want a board by turn five, and this means dropping dragons by turn three, turn four, the latest.

[1:27] But if you look at the four drop dragons, there just isn't enough of them with high impact. So yeah, we want five drops and that means we need early ramp. Our ramp needs to be two mana and we prioritize mana fixing. Normally I wouldn't play cards like arcane signate index with green, but the fixing is just too good to pass up. And now we get to do the first epic play that only dragon can enable consistently, a five drop dragon on turn three. And we're not just playing any five drop. These ones, for example, are much better when you have a decent board. So, here we are looking at the ones that are suitable for leading the charge. We are applying pressure immediately. And all of this is because we want to be as aggressive as possible because even though we do have some epic lateg game plans like our commander, we're still for the most part a typo deck doing some honest damage.

[2:14] But a lot of our opponents will outvalue us if we allow them too much breathing room. And one of the best ways to avoid that is to drop their life totals down early so that any hasty dragon we drop later on becomes an unignorable threat. Drama the Eternal is a great example of our philosophy here. This card stopped being cool maybe I don't know 6 months after it release being replaced by a cooler mythic gear version of itself. But playing this over something like ancient brass dragon may be unthinkable to some. But pragmatism over flare. Imagine dropping this on turn three. You'll be smacking someone for seven on turn four, and every dragon that comes after it will likely get four than six counters. That's a lot of pressure.

[2:54] Deploying a board fast is sometimes enough to straight up close up games, but usually not. What we do for follow-up is the key to the consistency we promised earlier. Now, moving on to the mid game. This for us should be sometime between turn five to seven, assuming our board hasn't been wiped yet. The next set of dragons will aim to build upon what we have and set up for the game onwards. They'll either protect our board in some ways, help refill our hand, or amplify our damage to aim for some fast kills. The best ones here are a target twinflame tyrant colog and the storms fury is also deceptively powerful. Kenobi gargantuan is a bit slow, but if opponents can't find an answer fast, they'll be staring at some 1212 flyers crushing it. For some reason, there aren't a ton of these game finishing dragons.

[3:36] Well, if we can't do it fast, we do it for longer. Scale Lord Recker is the perfect protection piece, forcing your opponents to think twice before using any spot removal. Wrathful Red Dragon shuts down anything damage based like blasphemous act. Also makes blocking really awkward for your opponents. Call of the Spirit Dragon is not a dragon if you are observant. But shutting down most board wipes while giving a small pump on the next attack is the perfect way to top off any decent board state. And if we find neither of the utilities mentioned above, the next best thing is card draw to refill our hands and brace for the late game. And for some reason, dragons are better at drawing cards than dealing damage. I will take it. Zerggo and Ojutai is ridiculous value with any decent board.

[4:17] Tiamat of course needs no mention. One cast and you're set for turns to come. Two-headed dragon doesn't seem that powerful on paper, but getting that five damage and two cards immediately is excellent for just five mana. Furrag does it in more convoluted ways. It might be a lot less reliable than other options, but it's one of the most chaotically fun dragons in the deck. No spine dragon is bomb. Now, do not cheat this one in with attack triggers or something. We have to make sure the damage hits first. And when we drop this to refill, usually you will be drawing double digit. Also, our commander happens to be a draw spell as well. Just got to get it down fast. Hawkeye Corser is the best choice for that. I mean, this thing isn't supposed to show up on turn five, but when it does, soul boy is one of the most overwhelming surprises your opponents will ever face in the game of commander.

[5:04] Like an end boss showing up way too soon. Aside from Hawkeye Corser, we also have plenty of dragons that help us ramp into our end game. Turns out dragons are not only amazing at drawing, they also have over-the-top ramp effects. I mean, just look at these two gold diggers. One heist and we are set for life. And this is also why haste is important. More about the haste enablers later, but you know who doesn't need enabling? Cluth, unrival in ancient. This card does it all on its own. Flying haste and even without anything else, we get four mana. But if you drop this with any decent board, well, let's just say we'll be getting one of those turns that remind us why we play the dragon in the first place. And now we're moving on to the late game. By now, two things will have happened. Either you've won, in which case, congratulations.

[5:46] You can click off the video now, or your board gets cleared, in which case keep watching. We are rebuilding and we're going explosive. Getting one or two dragons a turn just isn't enough anymore. Patriarch spitting and airy ultimatum. Yeah, just undo your board wipe. Oh, and I get a few triggers. Majestic Genesis reveal nine cards. Get all the dragons immediately. We're back in the game. Draco Genesis does it differently, but with all the draw we had earlier, we should be able to deploy this and swarm the board immediately. Sneak Attack does something similar, but more explosive and more reckless. But if you just drew 15 cards with say null spine dragon, this is one of the best cards to see. Colossal Grave Reaver, Udvar, Hulkite, and Ranny are a bit slower, but they are all capable of snowballing out of control if unchecked for just a little bit.

[6:29] And of course, there's ancient gold dragon, cuz remember the tokens it makes are also dragons. A dragon tempest and to this is probably the closest we can get to a combo in this deck, as long as you can roll better than me. And that rounds out our game plan. It's fairly simple. apply pressure early and keep up the intensity for as long as we can. Now, let's take a look at some utilities. Starting with Monster Manual. Getting this early game can really ramp up our game plan, dropping one extra dragon each turn at instant speed. In late game, when we have the mana, you can always adventure first for some value. Black Market Connections gives us everything we need, and there are tons of dragon synergies in the deck, making the changelings quite relevant. Be careful with the life payment, though. This deck is not great at gaining life, and it's definitely one of our weaknesses.

[7:11] Haste is really freaking important here. So alongside dragon tempest, we have teamer ascendancy, rhythm of the wild, and why not lightning grease. For removals, we are going all board wipes and all one-sided. I mean, we're in five color tribal deck. There's a ton of those. Ruinous ultimatum. Yes, we are going to need some good fixing. Cruc of fate, we choose none dragons. And for Kindred Dominance, we choose dragons. Do not mess this one up, Jimmy. And deathbringer region is not the strongest, but it's a boardweight on a dragon, and we have plenty of synergies with that. for more card draw. Great hen just too good to not include in any big dumb beats deck and stinging study for nine feels like cheating. And last but not least, we have one finisher in the earth dragon deck. We don't actually really need finishers. Most of them will either do nothing or be win more.

[7:53] A chrome as well is kind of like that too, but it gives so much needed utility even if it isn't used to win games. It's a perfectly fine protection spell. And more importantly, the lifelink can win us some unwinable games. And if you happen to have the Earth Dragon and a few others out, this will get the job done. For our land base, it's fairly simple. We want the best mana fixing possible because ideally we want to start doing things on turn three, the latest. We'll be starting with all the fetches and five triumphs. We prioritize fetching those when we don't need the mana, but most of the time we will. So untapped duels make a pretty big difference in this deck. Shocks can work too, but I don't think ETB tapped options will cut it here, unfortunately. And that's 25 lens. Add in some fivecolor lands.

[8:34] I mean, the dragon ones are so pushed. And yeah, we barely have room for utility lands. I'm curious what your choices are, but for me, I'm prioritizing haste. Also, Mosford Bridge as a land and a flash dragon for two mana. That's just too much value to pass up. Agadem awakening is a land early game and mass reanimation spell late. Just getting two or three dragons from this is more than enough. And lastly, two colorless slots. One of them I'm giving to Alchemist Refuge. This card is a bit expensive to use, but it allows us to control the tempo of our threat deployment. Sometimes two dragons on your turn is not as good as one dragon at the end of your opponent's turn. And lastly, Vault of the Archangel. This one you'll have to try, but life gain is just too important in the average commander deck. And we have close to none.

[9:15] Top decking this late can really claw back into a difficult game. And just look at all the dragons that can do direct damage. Sweet synergy. And that's all the dragon deck for 2025. Am I missing a dragon that is MVP for you? Would you play the Vault of the Archangel? This is Jyn from Next Level Commander. If you enjoy this content, please like and subscribe, and I'll see you in the next video.
