# You'll NEVER Worry About Combat Again | Commander-Centric Deck Tech
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/IDFBdRLsjPg
date: 2025-10-16 | views: 6,220 | likes: 181 | comments: 24 | length: 9:12 | words: 1,807 | wpm: 196.6
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 1:37 Commander-Centric; 3:19 The Deck
tags: Mtg, Magic the Gathering, EDH, Commander, Baeloth, Boros

[0:02] my brother isn't with so much more. Tell me why. &gt;&gt; You ever thought about why magic has to be about fighting? Why? Can't it just be about peace, sunshines, and rainbows? Imagine we're always asking how. How do we get value? How to win? But never. Why? Have you considered how much resources we are wasting on fighting combat? You play a creature, I play a creature, I attack, you block. What happens? Let me check the new player guide. Power, toughness, toughness, power. Oh, they both die.

[0:42] Well, that's a lot of nothing. But apparently, combat is where games are won and lost. And it's not just the removals and combat tricks we have to load up on because of that. Look at our creatures. How many of them are you playing? Because they're excellent attackers or blockers. Now imagine a life without combat. Say you know a guy who knows a guy with a certain background and he can just take care of fighting for you. All of it automated. No more complicated maths and number checking. No more need for whining. Why are you attacking me, not him? Imagine with me. This is Jin with Next Level Commander and this is a very special video for me. Thank you for joining me on the first installment of my commander ccentric content.

[1:26] It is about my favorite style of deck building where you lean very heavily on your commander depending on it for value, removal, win condition, and sometimes all of the above. I enjoy commandercentric decks because they can play like the commanders themselves rather than following traditional archetypes. Every deck is distinct, like a fighting game character with a limited but specialized set of moves. While your opponents may know exactly what you have in your arsenal, it still can be a challenge for them to navigate around it. If you're interested in this kind of deck building, please subscribe for more. Some examples here include a croak set deck using all distant tomb and undying effects and get rock the ravenous ride with all pump spells, protection spells, and elves.

[2:07] But today we have Both. Yeah, remember when I said we're magicking peacefully? Just kidding. We are Mewtwo. Our opponents fight gladiator style while we eat popcorn and commentate on their combat decisions. And that is our entire game plan with the background noble heritage bailoff will start at four power and continue to grow every turn. This is also a really interesting combination because unlike other tempts, most of the time it's correct for your opponents to take the deal if they have no way to remove bailoff and has to attack someone else anyways. Might as well grow their creatures and hope to use it against us later on, right? And this is great because our opponents are hitting each other so much harder until they can get out of our cage.

[2:50] But wait, you ask. What if there's only one opponent left? Gold no longer works as intended. What will we do with our commander? His ability doesn't do anything now, and it's only a Oh, right. So, yeah. Both. Both does everything. All eggs in a Bothshaped basket. And we better keep that basket steady with protection spells. And just like Mewtwo, we do things in moderation. Only 27 pieces of protection. Yes, 27. Take that deck building templates. This may sound ridiculous at first, but imagine a board and hand like this. You're probably feeling pretty safe for the next few turns, maybe even rest of the game. It's the liberation from combat. We have so many extra card slots.

[3:31] And this allows us to go deep. Shelter in light a Johnny's presence and emerge unscathed. A lot of these are fringe. Even someone as obsessed with protection as myself never used these elsewhere. And here is because we have to be careful with phasing and blinking effects. These are usually the superior protection spells, but problem is blink removes the counters accumulated on bailoff and phasin takes them out of the game until our next turn and we can't do that if we're threatened on board. So yeah, shroud hexroof protection from a color, all that good stuff. We still have a few blink and phasing effects because they can be excellent in the right scenarios, but definitely keep the downsides in mind. Now on to the fun part, utilities. First off, we're in borrow, so we do have to jump through some hoops for card draw.

[4:14] Monarch is actually perfect for this deck. So, we've got Court of Grace and Ember Wild Captain both synergize well with our play style. Aurelia, the law above is interesting. We shouldn't have too much trouble attacking with three creatures ourselves to get that one card, but if we can get just one more from our opponents, smacking each other is well worth playing. And now, a few toys to really power up our golding blind obedience. I don't usually play this card. I don't think it does enough, but it's perfect in this deck. Yeah, playing creatures to block for a turn. Huh, not happening. Duelist Heritage, excellent finisher for closing out games with our commander, but also being able to do this on opponents combat is massive. Death Kiss. Everyone is dying twice as fast. And we can go a few things in a pinch.

[4:54] Like if Sam plays a BFM, oh, what would I do with that? Bailoff is not keeping that in check. We can just kiss it. My personal favorite though is bothersome quaset. No one is blocking ever. And in the rare scenario of us losing our commander, yeah, remember our 27 protection spells, most of them are none creature. So, say we block a thing with quaset, give it protection and gold something big from the third player. Yeah, this can definitely hold the fort for a little while. And just a few more panic buttons, we have spectacular showdown. The overloaded effect will end the game fast with proper timing. And once in a while, we can just use the base effect on bailoff to kill one player. It's perfectly doable. There's also disrupt the cororum, taunt from the ramp part, and of course, the one ring.

[5:35] We really do need the draw power. Lamb attacks and weathered wafer are absolute staples and boros. Now, one problem with this deck I found is that I'm relying very heavily on Noble Heritage to pump our commander. Sometimes it gets removed. Sometimes the pump isn't fast enough. So, we do need just a few backup plants. So, the most efficient one here is Blackblade Reforged. Five mana, usually 10 extra power. Good card. And the best possible equipment in a borrow deck is Sunforger. The plus four is handy, but in the late game, this card will alone will keep us in any attrition war. In the Sunforger package, we have Acromo's Will, which needs no introduction. It does everything. Tibball's trickery to answer the otherwise unanswerable and rest of the package consists of the aforementioned protection spells and of course removals.

[6:20] Yeah, look at this one. Final showdown. This is a protection spell or a one-sided board wipe and it can be sun forgered. Yeah, holy crap. Parting gust is a cute one here, serving as a removal or a slow blink. Hard wipes. We're using the most efficient ones in blasphemous act and vanquish the horde. Chandra's ignition works really well with our commander. Imagine lifelinking with a 10 power bale into this. Route is always good. Imagine your opponents finally disassembling your commander to alpha strike you and just to run into this. Brutal. For rocks, we have the typical but a few interesting ones like All Fate Scroll. At this point, it's like my channel's icon. It's so good. Curse of opulence is perfect for this deck if opponents have to smack each other anyways.

[7:02] I mean, they might as well get a treasure out of it. Sure. The Iron Craig is a really underrated rock. It's mana when you need it, and it pumps the commander when you don't. Interestingly, I read this card wrong for the longest time. I thought it shut down the equipped creatures abilities, and even then, I thought it was playable in some decks, but turns out it's referring to itself, so it's just no longer a mana rock. Excellent card. And Bender's Water Skin. This is the exact kind of deck that wants this card. It allows us to drop our commander with protection mana up two turns early. Lens have to pull a lot of weight in Boros. And for utility lands, we're playing the ones that pump baleof. Opal, tyrate sanctum do solid work. Slayer stronghold is a temporary pump, but also gives haste, which works really well here.

[7:44] We have a few other haste lens, and we're not using these on our own creatures usually, but the ones our opponents drop and intend to block with. Nope, we smashing. War Room and Bonder's Enclave are a bit expensive to use, but were essentially a control deck, often with mana open. So, sinking mana into these once in a while is excellent value. And there you have it. This is the Both deck. It's not the most explosive build. Both takes a little while to set up. So, while while we do that, we may need to play tight and answer some early threats. But once we have Both set up, we'll be coasting. Keep him alive. Send him in for some commander damage here and there to set up for the onehit kill in the late game. I try my best to make the deck resilient, but Boros does have its limitations.

[8:26] The budget is mid, but only because of a handful of replaceable cards. A budget version of this is definitely doable, and you won't lose too much power. The current list I'm keeping around bracket three, but most of my friends don't follow brackets for good reasons, I'd say. So, I toss in a farewell of trouble in Paris when I do play. I'd say the deck is fairly allrounded against different opponents. It feels like cheating when you're playing against aggro and beatdown decks. And against the less permanent based ones, they will also be pressured by other opponents smacking into them willingly or otherwise. And they also have to figure out ways to block baleiff. So if this is something you would enjoy playing, give it a try and let me know how it goes. And thank you for joining me for the first episode of our commander centric series.

[9:07] The best stuff is yet to come. Please subscribe and I'll be seeing you soon.
