# A Guide to Flubs - The Most Challenging Deck I've Ever Built
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/IglzxQnlh_E
date: 2025-05-16 | views: 9,001 | likes: 515 | comments: 57 | length: 11:13 | words: 2,237 | wpm: 201.8
chapters: 0:00 Introduction to Flubs; 1:12 Understanding the challenge; 2:12 Building the core package; 3:22 Breaking the lock; 5:42 Choosing a strategy; 7:06 Spot removal focus; 8:26 Win conditions; 9:37 Final thoughts and tips
tags: #MTG #Commander #EDH #DeckTech #FlubsTheFool #MagicTheGathering #FrogCommander

[0:00] Hello everyone, welcome to the first video of this channel. This is Jyn from Next Level Commander and today we are talking about the most difficult commander I've ever built. Not since Time Spyro have we had a commander that works against you every step of the way. Generally in commander games, you have three opponents, but today we are not just playing against our opponents, but also this big idiot, Flops the Fool. Yes, we are playing against our own commander. And here's some live footage to show you how. I need to play smaller spells.

[0:54] Ooh, I need more land drops. Oh, look. I can play four lands a turn. Now Draw. I need to get alive. So yeah, as you can see, after jumping through the first hoops and having a rough deck together, I realized that Flubs is designed in a way that gets you stuck every other turn because you turn through your spells and the next turn comes, you realize, "Oh, lookie, look. I have two cards in my hand. Now what? And say if I'm lucky, I have a flashback spell or something I I can use to go back to the sweet spot of having one card in hand.

[1:35] I'll be on two again the turn. So, at first I was annoyed at how the designers didn't see this problem, right? Flubs really needed you skip your draw step for it to work as intended, I thought. But then it hit me. This is the flavor of flubs. Getting lost and hitting the dead end every turn. And I have to say the gameplay experience captured this perfectly. Honestly, if this was intentional, I'm happy for the designers, but not for me because holy crap, that's a lot of hoops I have to jump through. But hey, once you do, the payoffs is worth it, right? Right. We'll see. So, first of all, we have to accept that we are not playing big spells.

[2:16] Not that it's impossible, but to maximize flips, if you draw a six or seven drop early game, your entire turn is basically over. Even four or five drops can feel clunky at times. And the next problem we have to deal with is lands. If we want to turn through spell after spell, two lands a turn simply isn't enough. In the mid game, ideally you'd want three to four lands a turn. And the best name was for that. I'm sure you're familiar with exploration atusa oracle case of the locked hop house, dried of theian grove. Now the dried is nice for fixing while wayward sort and druid class you can probably replace with any extra land enabler really. Uh, the life gain from the class is nice though. Also, abundance, which isn't an extra land drop spell, but it's like one of the best cards in the deck because it serves the same purpose, allowing us to get exactly what we need and never be stuck with more lands than we can play.

[3:05] So, with that settled, oh yeah, we still have to deal with the backing ourselves into a corner. So, with our brilliant commander, remember every turn we're going to start with two cards in hand, which means we have to figure out ways to draw a card or play a spell or play a land from not our hand to break that flop's lock. And here are some allstars to help us with that problem. Since it's a mini top, not too much to say here. Just a ridiculous, ridiculous magic card. Play with it here and you'll see. I even slotted in an Öza saga just to search for it. Try not to take too long with it though. That's one problem with this deck is taking long turns. We want to minimize that as much as possible. And next we have Obero. This single best land in the deck. This combined with the extra land drops makes it so that you will never never be stuck.

[3:48] Embrace the Unknown. Another semi-permanent solution to our problem. A bit expensive at three mana, but just cast it once a turn from your hand or graveyard. And we're set for the turn. Velica Exploration. Another card that feels tailor made for this deck. Breaks the lock and deal some damage to our opponents. Why not? Year. Now this one you have to be careful with. It's extremely powerful. It can easily exile something like 30 to 40 cards a turn. And if you're playing Stormman, you can win on the spot, sure, but otherwise it might be going a bit too aggressive. Dreamscape artist, a gem from Planer Chaos. This allows us to discard a card to ramp and for the net mana cost of one because the two lands enter untapped, which is extremely efficient.

[4:29] Although for the artist, I had to up the basic land count in my deck from three to seven, which is a bit of a downside, I think, because the deck is extremely color intensive because you never know what color spell you're going to draw next, right? But overall, I think it's worth it. It's a great card. Fortune Tellers Talon is chosen because of the low initial cost. You can just drop it and playing from the top with reduced cost can allow you to turn through your deck extremely fast. It's like another flux. and Oracle of Modia and the case. Like we mentioned earlier, they also serve dual purpose here because playing lands from the talk can also help us break the lock. There are also a few lands here that can allow us to crack and draw cards and they can help us get unstuck in a pitch. And last but not least, we have Song of Creation.

[5:11] This card just does everything. It's like a better version of our commander. Honestly, if this was a legendary creature, Flaps will have no chance. Now, from my experience, even all this isn't enough. with the strategy you end up choosing, you will need to find cars that help us break the flops lock, even just once. And you will see some examples later. But yeah, for now, we are done with the flops package. No matter what strategy we end up playing, we're going to need a package like this. It may vary a bit again depending on what you're doing, but for the most part, it should be quite similar. Okay, around 20 cards in and we finally dealt with our commander and we can kick back and reload. Oh yeah, we still have three opponents. Hey, but this is the fun part. With the flops package in place, we can now choose our strategy.

[5:55] And this is where we make all that hard work worthwhile because with flops, you can do pretty much anything you want as long as you keep the mana relatively low. Landfall is by far the most popular choice since, well, our package is already doing that. Flops can definitely lead a powerful landfall deck. I've also seen some cool storm builds, but if you want something a little bit different, a little bit more interesting, flops can be an excellent slimes against humanity commander. Three mana is a bit high, but just throw in some of the cost reducers and we're set. And toss in some enablers and payoffs and we have a slime stack. I think this is what I'll try once I'm bored of the current build, which I'll reveal soon, I promise. And you can do the same with Dragon's Approach. Only issue here is we won't be playing a lot of the big dragons, but rather we went through Dragon's Approach damage and speller damage.

[6:40] But of course, there are a few dragons that are too good to not play, like Twinflame Tyrant and Miz. maybe another one or two of your favorites, but we do have to keep the count low. And if you don't want to waste the dragon's approach, search trigger, there are dragons that you can cast for cheap one way or the other, and those won't clock up your hand. So, as you can see, the possibilities are endless. Goblins, burn spells, whatever lowcost strategy you want to try, flops, and the package will enable. But for me, I decided to go with a slightly different theme, removals. Now, there are a few reasons for that. First, I don't usually play a lot of removals and I get criticized rightly for being too greedy with my deck building. And second, my group kind of does the same, too.

[7:20] We have a removal light meta. And now more and more we are seeing easily interactable threats take over the game, unanswered. So, I'm looking to bring back the interactive game. And what's a better way to do that than a deck with over 30 spot removals. The plan here is that once we're set up with some of our fluffs enablers, we are going to chain removal after removal after removal after removal to keep the opponent's board clear. Now, let's go over some removal spells. First, we have the aforementioned lock breakers with mechanics like aftermath, flashback, harmonize, and adventure. We can save these spells for later when we need another cast trigger. Meanwhile, the kicked option for into the royal and blink of an eye can also help occasionally.

[8:00] For rest of the removals, we are going for cheap as we want to chain through as many of them as possible in a turn. And versatility is also important as we might actually run out of targets as possible. Oh, and if you care about game changers, psychonic rift doesn't really need to be in here. It's rarely overloaded. It did save me a few times, but not often. And here we are prioritizing instance and sorceries to synergize with our win conditions, which we'll go over next. For winning, we have the typical spell slinger package, fire incription, gunner snipe, cruscation mage, as I like the option to drop it early for two mana, and etherflux reservoir isn't quite as reliable for killing, but the light gang is delicious. Meanwhile, Sorcerer's class abilities just synergize beautifully with the deck, and it is what kills our opponents the fastest.

[8:45] Lastly, we also have a land in Field of the Dead, which can reliably pump out three to five zombies a turn from very early on in the game, cuz we get to seven lands fast. Now, we might need a few more win conditions, but we don't really want to draw them early. So, currently I'm sitting at seven, but this can definitely be adjusted based on what you think. And after that, we have some miscellaneous enablers. Just some random good stuff. Noxious Revival, for example, is nice for the free mana cost and being able to bring back important pieces or just a little quick graveyard. Mythical and world leader are nice for the cheap cost again. And if I need, they can get MDFC lance onto the top of library. But again, if you care about game changers, these are not important at all. Actually, this deck can easily qualify for bracket one.

[9:28] Technically, Field of the Dead is maybe the only one that's difficult to cut, but is not key to our strategy, and replacing it with another landfall token maker shouldn't hurt too much. And finally, let's take a look at the lands of this deck that haven't been shown yet. Some of our favorite lands in this deck are the MDFC's. They can be spellouts or lands, whichever one we need at the moment. And many of them are actually removals, too. Now outside of that, we are prioritizing mana fixing even at the cost of some life. And there you have it, the deck with the biggest idiot in magic at the helm. And the commander is pretty dumb, too. Now, keep in mind, whatever approach you end up going with, playing your deck one card at a time with no chance to plan your moves ahead is not easy.

[10:10] I'd recommend this for more experienced Magic players. And even then, please make sure to practice goldfish the deck a fair bit to avoid making 20-minute turns in real games. And if you do, please don't point your friends to this video. I don't want more reports than likes for my first ever video. Please, no. But hey, not being able to respond and plan out your turns does have upsides, though. When it's not your turn, you can just leave. Oh, you know, just kick back and relax and have some small talk to distract your opponents into misplaying or stare into the distance. Heck, you can even bring a sleeping mask. Take a 10 to 15 minute power nap between turns. The possibilities are endless. So, yeah. Thank you. Thank you. This is our guide to flubs. Thank you for watching my first ever video.

[10:52] My next video will be about decks that are built solely around the commander and why I think it's actually the best way to approach our format. It should drop exactly 7 days from now or from when this is posted. But yeah, I will see you again.
