# The Most Interesting Colorless Commander in a Long Time
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/jYHSOdWuFtE
date: 2026-06-14 | views: 7,845 | likes: 173 | comments: 40 | length: 8:33 | words: 1,996 | wpm: 233.9
tags: Magic, MTG, Magic the Gathering, Commander, EDH, Marvel, Fantastic 4, Colorless

[0:00] You see in the history of magic, what 30, 35 years, they weren't able to make a lot of interesting colorless commanders and that's not exactly on them. I mean, colorless, it wasn't even supposed to be a thing and it's just difficult. It's either Eldrazi or big artifacts, that's it. They've tried other themes, but clearly these are not meant to lead a deck. We just don't have enough tools to work with. Now, with Marvel, it brought us a lot of legends and I was pretty hyped cuz I've always wanted a colorless deck and and you know, with characters like Voltron, Vision, Galactus, I thought maybe they would be able to figure out something interesting. But, again, disappointed. Uh they either do big mana or artifacts, but there are better commanders for these. Or when it's interesting, there's no support. So, I looked away, but that was until my friend Vu reminded me that the Fantastic Car can be a commander.

[0:45] And a few hours later, it's turning out to be the most interesting colorless commander I've seen in years. It is unique, fun, aggressive, can be pretty strong, and actually is on a really reasonable budget for a colorless deck. Yeah, this. I'm not joking. Okay, quick self-introduction. This is Jin with Next Level Commander and my goal is to make decks that are unique, but also functional. Marvel did bring us quite a few pretty interesting options and I have a few deck tech videos lined up. So, if you're interested, please like and subscribe. Anyways, back to our vehicle commander. Three mana 4/4 vehicle with no crew cost. It turns into a creature when you play any non-creature spell. That seems reasonable, but that's not why we're here. We are here for the last ability. When we cast our fourth non-creature spell each turn, we can sacrifice Fantastic Car and if we do, it turns into four 4/4 tokens with flying and haste.

[1:31] At first, it seemed pretty good in other formats, maybe even busted, but in EDH, it's a lot of work to make 16 damage. Now, Vu did mention that you can play a bunch of zero cost artifacts to power out the split ability very early on, but then what? I mean, if you're in blue, sure, but in colorless, you just spent four cards to make four 4/4s and and that's your entire game. You're not going to have reliable card draw. So, basically, we need ramp, card draw, and being able to reliably pump out the 16 power early because every time we wait it becomes less relevant. So, it's a cool concept, but we needed something we needed a glue that holds everything together. I was just about to give up, but like one of those very realistic detective shows I got inspiration from real life when I was eating instant noodles saving money for the new set really missing the days before magic when I was able to just order pizza.

[2:18] And actually, I got married recently and just as I was sorting out the invitations figuring out who not to invite a gleam of sunlight refracted through my window and I found the line. And no, this time we are not digging through the bulk bin. I'm going straight for the dumpster behind my LGS. The Robin, the pizza, the Lembas, some light energy thingies, a snow globe, and all that this makes the body of our deck. Drawing a card and bringing in an artifact for some other synergies and interactions is nice. Although, I would much prefer the ones that are cheap and sacrifice for cards, but there are just not that many. So, we have to make do with the two mana ones. Now, the problem with these is they are a little bit expensive. Casting four of these a turn is eight mana, so we need some cost reducers.

[2:59] And unfortunately, we also don't have a ton of those in colorless, so we are playing them all. Cloudkey, Foundry Inspector, Joyous Familiar, and Semblance Anvil. It does cost me a card, but the reduction is massive. And also, of course, Ugin. Now, Glaring Fleshraker isn't exactly a cost reducer, but it has a very similar function and sometimes even better if your hand has a few zero cost artifacts. Also, with the number of artifacts we're playing, the damage ability can be very relevant. Now, these are some of the most important cards in the deck. If you get one of these cheap ones in the opening hand, your game will go really well. We actually don't have a lot of ramp in this deck because a lot of them are not that efficient. We want the ones that can chain into each other. So, something like War and Powerstone doesn't work that well with what we're doing. On the other hand, these zero mana ones are really good cuz in a pinch you can drop them for nothing to fill in for that fourth non-creature spell.

[3:45] Aside from that, the deck is still kind of short on gas, so we want these mana rocks that can draw us cards, especially this one here. Spoiler alert, we have almost 40 differently named lands in the deck. Yeah, this goes crazy. And meanwhile, another really interesting inclusion, Coveted Jewel. Honestly, this is too risky to include in most decks, but here we do have some artifact synergies, specifically Scepter of the Dragon our opponents from trying to take it. But even if we don't, with the attackers we have, there are scenarios where we wouldn't mind doing some back and forth with this with an opponent or every opponent. And a few more pieces of less reliable ramp, we have Clock of Omens, The Ironworks, and Radiant Lotus. Now, these are all here to capitalize on the fact that we probably will have a lot of artifacts doing nothing on our board.

[4:25] Okay, and those are the ramp options. Now, we look at some other utility like card draw and recursion is difficult, but we have to try to keep the gas flowing. Got to be creative here. We have a lot of fodder artifacts, so Trading Post seems great here. And with all the sacrificing, cards like Scrap Trawler is pretty good. And Mystic Forge plus any cost reducer, we can get some massive value. Now, we are drawing a lot of cards, but we're not going up on cards because we're can-tripping basically. But a Hammer of Purphoros breaks that balance. It's expensive, but with that on the board, everything becomes value. And one of my favorite draw spells in colorless, Sensei's Divining Top. This is three mana less than Kozilek, but can often draw us more than four cards. I do want to talk about Skullclamp. It is not at its best in this deck because we don't have a lot of things to sacrifice.

[5:06] And And if we're really struggling for cards, I guess we can clamp a 4/4 token and sack that, but we don't want to. We want to attack. Although, one interesting interaction is that with our commander, it first turns into a creature. So, if we have one mana to spare, we can clamp the fantastic card and then cast the fourth spell. The card sacrifices itself, we get four tokens, and two cards. Feels good when it happens. And finally, this is something I don't usually use, but yeah, we are pretty desperate, Pendant of Prosperity. If you play it right, it's broken. Just give it to someone who's behind on mana or the draw-go player who always has mana open or that one person who's the greediest in your group, you know who it is. Doesn't work that well in our group cuz that person is me. But yeah, that's our card advantage suite. Now, for some removals and answers, Ugin's are always nutty but the new Ugin is specifically bonkers in our deck.

[5:50] With the zero ability to add three mana, we can easily cast three to four other spells after Ugin to exile four to five permanents and even more later on. Then we have the typical All Is Dust and Oblivion Stone in case things get scary out there. And kind of random, but Metalwork Colossus is mostly a Timmy card I want to play but usually it's pretty cheap sometimes free and in the graveyard is another cycle. That wraps up our non-land cards. Now for lands, the first thing I want to mention is I'm trying to play 39 lands and and maybe it should be more. The reason for that is because we are trying to get a very consistent and explosive start. We want to be attacking with those four tokens by turn four the latest. And for that reason, we are a bit more reliant on mulligans. And that can easily backfire if we don't have enough lands.

[6:31] And we have a ton of utility cuz we don't need colored fixing and also because wastes are expensive. We've got the Urza package, the Locus package, and the speed package. I mean, they're kind of useful. The best ones of course are these ones that interact with artifacts. Also these ones that can draw us cards when we're desperate or very desperate. Also just a Haven of the Spirit Dragon cuz Ugin's are some of the best cards in the deck. In terms of play experience, the deck is trying to be explosive but it's not that fast. I mean, if we get a sweet hand, we can get the four tokens on turn three but usually it's turn four. And there's a decent chance that we get another set on turn five. That's pretty good, right? We are not the most resilient deck. Artifacts are brittle. We're trying really hard to keep the gas flowing but being colorless, yeah, we will run out.

[7:11] And there will come a point in the game where flying hasty cards just isn't that relevant even if it's four of them. Also, if our opponent really wants to, they can disrupt our plan pretty easily just in response to the fourth spell, destroy the commander, and yeah, and we have to go again. And the deck I find is actually fairly difficult to play, specifically the first four to five turns. You know, figuring out the sequencing, planning for that one big turn with four spells. Do we cast a cantrip now or do we hold it for later? Lots to figure out and it's very easy to mess up. Now for budget, I managed to keep it at $200, which is pretty difficult for colorless. It can usually go really high, and this deck also can benefit if you're willing to splurge. I mean, a One Ring, of course, would really help, but just the acceleration options, even just better utility lands, for example, this one from Marty's Vault, is really good in artifact decks.

[7:55] And in colorless, we do have to nickel and dime for value, and sometimes overpay for them. For bracket, I think this will do fine in bracket two or bracket three. In bracket two, it might be a little bit too fast sometimes. Like, people will see you get, "Oh, 16 power on turn four, that's kind of scary." But, that's also basically our peak. So, where this deck lands kind of depends on how you manage your game and other people's perceptions. But, yeah, what draws me to this deck is how aggressive it is, how different it is than the other colorless decks I've seen. And they tried making aggressive colorless commanders, but those just don't work, and this one does. All right, that's all we have. Thank you for watching my video. This is Jin with Next Level Commander, and I'll see you in the next video.
