# Fixing the WORST Commander From Strixhaven Commander | Commander-Centric Deck Tech
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/kJRhTc0VoU0
date: 2026-04-10 | views: 15,962 | likes: 401 | comments: 91 | length: 8:17 | words: 1,708 | wpm: 206.6
tags: Strixhaven, Edh, Commander, Commander-Centric, Magic The Gathering

[0:00] Once in a while we get these legendary creatures that are really freaking cool, but they're just not quite there. I find this to be quite common with second commanders from precons. Man, I remember trying for ages to make Basandra work. That failed. Have you got something like this? Did you manage to make it work? Please let me know. But today we'll make something happen. Just watch. Because Strixhaven just brought us the newest installment of underwhelming second commander, Scryb. I was looking at the art long before the release of the card and there's just something about the combination of black and white, such a nice unique aesthetic. But when they spoiled the card and everyone was whelmed. I mean, you read this giant block of text and ah, that sounds kind of cool.

[0:41] And then you try to think of the implications and there just isn't much. Reminds me of those cards that they nerf at the last minute. Two life really isn't much of a deterrent. They wouldn't care if they're going tall. Yes, I'll pay two life to smack you for 18. And if they're going wide, you won't have time to contract everything. They can just send the uncontracted ones at you. And they're not even forced to attack. Yeah, in the age of gold, this just feels really outdated. Commander eccentric to the rescue. With this kind of deck building, the first and easiest thing to ask about any new legend is if I were to blink it over and over and over again, would it be worth it? And the answer here is yeah, maybe. Maybe. But even that is better than whatever we had to begin with.

[1:21] With this premise, we'll be able to set multiple contracts a turn, which can trigger constellation effects, area effects. Okay, seems good. Also, we have a creature entering the battlefield over and over again, which does trigger a few things. But that's about it. And it doesn't quite do enough, I felt. Cuz constellation and area, they do have a few gems, but it's quite limited within our colors and the base form is just we are spending one card per contract. Yeah, and card draw is going to be a problem. So, we just need a little more payoff. As is, it's not working. We're close. We're close. But then I saw the flying and death touch. Flying is cool, but death touch? I mean, it is the best combination for blocking.

[2:02] I see Baleful Strix holding the fort for almost entire games. But with our three toughness, most fights will be a trade. Unless, what if we replace the blink spells with these undying effects? You know, Supernatural Stamina, Undying Malice, Feign Death, Not Dead After All, and of course, Malakir Rebirth. Some of these return the creatures tapped, but it's hard to say no to the single skull mana. Two mana is also decent and we get some added bonus like treasures. And there's one three mana instant in Sign in Blood. I don't actually know how good this card will be, but I just wanted it in every deck. And that's not it because we're looking like a bit of an enchantress deck, so auras is where it's at. Changing Loyalty is a sweet new card and fits straight in.

[2:44] Kaya's Ghostform is a classic and Minions' Return is kind of crappy, but it also shows the lowest point we're willing to go for synergy. These reanimation effects are also solid. The real bomb here is Gift of Immortality. This is one of those cards so pushed, they haven't made anything even remotely close for a decade and probably won't for another. And it's perfect for this deck. Nim Deathmantle is much worse in a vacuum, but still makes the cut for reusability. And how about that? Yeah, go ahead, attack into this. You will lose your best attacker and serve as our sac outlet. Okay, that seems decent. Our commander is now a top tier blocker if the situation calls for it. So, this way we can We can feel pretty safe from the combat phase. Yeah, we can deter most attacks.

[3:25] But this, of course, has another little hoop we have to jump through. Sac outlets. Luckily, we do have some really high quality lands for that and outside of these, we are only taking the best of the best. Warren Soul Trader, Phyrexian Altar, and Attrition just to have some removals in a pinch. Erebos and, of course, Yawgmoth. And with that, it also kind of solves our card draw problem because black. And now, finally, I think we have a solid foundation and we can give it a go and enjoy the payoffs. Since we're having enchantment tokens enter consistently, why not double them? Roaming Throne and Dawn are nice because they double the ETB trigger, but also the attack trigger. Anointed Procession and Mondrak, they don't do that, but there's incidental value here and there like copying treasure tokens, for example.

[4:09] Also, Mondrak can serve as a sac outlet in a pinch. Ondu Spirit Dancer works with all enchantments and that can lead to some magical Christmas land scenarios. Okay, now the actual payoffs. There are some sweet ones, but let's start simple. Every enchantment deck begins with Sphere of Safety. And we ramp up with Ajani's Chosen, Archon of Sun's Grace, and Ghostly Dancers. These are pretty costly, but they can go out of hand pretty quickly once we have our enchantment engine set up. Doomwake Giant and Thought Render Lamia are the top end of our payoffs, clearing our opponents' boards and hands if they're allowed to stick for a turn or two. Also, graveyards too, why not? We can get so many triggers that even Grim Guardian might be worth it. But the best payoff and what makes me most excited about this deck is these.

[4:53] Yeah, these powerhouses probably all better aura commanders than this derp who they're now working under. Harry Maguire vibes for those of you into football. But yeah, getting one of these down will hypercharge our game plan. And finally, Arden. When the time is right, we strap 10 contracts onto Scryb to one-shot them idiots for somehow letting us build up to 10 contracts. Magical Christmas land, I know, but it's still kind of fun to move these contracts to new, more relevant creatures. Oh, nice Blightsteel you've got there. Let's sign these. And what I consider to be the ultimate payoff, Skybind. Okay, this might not be broken broken, but it's really fun the moment you get this down with our commander. We are blinking on every opponent's turn and we are going to be obnoxious about it.

[5:36] See, I know you're comboing off, but let me trigger my constellation first. And also, combined with the other enchantments in the deck, you can do a lot of political work. You can disrupt your opponents because you can target any creature. Yeah, there's going to be a lot of versatility here and it will be the funnest time you have playing this deck. We do need to keep the card advantage up. For card draw, we have Agent Venom, Enduring Innocence, Caretaker's Talent, and of course, Skullclamp. Brazen Borrower Nightmare is actually broken in multiplayer. Sac an aura and we're most likely drawing three cards a turn. Pitiless Charge, we can just sac a few auras to refill our hand. And Bontu is nice because we can reuse it over and over again. Ramp here is nothing special. Worth mentioning is Relic of Legends. Every time Scryb gets brought back untapped, it can basically refund us one mana.

[6:20] And that can add up. And Soulstone in the late game is like our last resort for reanimating Scryb and other engines of the deck. Expedition Map and Weathered Wayfarer, of course, to look for our sac outlet lands and there's always Land Tax. For lands, we do have a decent amount of room for utility. Just make sure we have five or six basics to not whiff with Land Tax or a random Path to Exile. We've got all the staples for card draw and graveyard hate. The Final Fantasy adventure lands both have decent synergy with the deck, so they're in. And the enchantment matters lands like Hall of Heliod's Generosity. Velgoth Slayer happens to be an enchantment. In terms of play experience, this deck should be a bit slow. It requires some setup before actually making any kind of impact.

[7:01] It's fairly resilient with the recursion and card draw that are built in. The deck shouldn't be too complicated to play. Just remember your triggers. For budget, it's sitting around $500 for a near full power version. Can we go budget? I think so because none of these cards here above $20 are really necessary. The lands are replaceable and the doublers are kind of win more sometimes. And sac outlets. Okay, sac outlets are the biggest losses here, but we can make do with some budget options there. There's a bunch. These big payoffs and win conditions are not expensive and the engine is, again, bulk of bin stuff. So, yeah, I can see this being very buildable for around Uh in terms of bracket, it can push bracket three maybe if you if you want to add some GCs.

[7:44] But I see this sitting at a high bracket two, low bracket three at best. Although, do keep in mind this is a new card, so I haven't done the testing I usually do with my deck lists. And that's all. Thank you for watching the video all the way through. If you enjoy this kind of video, feel free to give it a like and follow along for future content. I'm trying to stick to a consistent schedule and I've got a few years worth of weekly deck lists I'm excited to share with you guys. So, please let me know if you plan to build a deck like this. How does it go if you do? This is Jin with Next Level Commander and I will see you around.
