# Captain Amerca is the BEST Vehicles Commander | Marvel Super Heroes Deck Tech
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/KPr8y3d79s8
date: 2026-06-04 | views: 8,300 | likes: 314 | comments: 100 | length: 9:59 | words: 2,180 | wpm: 218.7
tags: MTG, EDH, Magic the Gathering, Commander, Marvel, Marvel Super Heroes, Deck Tech, Captain America

[0:00] Hello everyone, this is Jim with Next Level Commander, and if you're like me and have been wanting to make vehicles work since Kaladesh, congratulations, our time has finally come after just 10 years of wait. Vehicles are really freaking cool, but they've been for the most part terrible in EDH. I mean, every vehicle needs a pilot, and when I finally get the crew ready, I have to choose between attacking or blocking, never both. I once tried a funny little deck with Narset where I crewed vehicles into vehicles into more vehicles, and flying crane technique to go in for alpha strike, death by conflict tricks. It worked once, but uh yeah, it was mostly a meme. With Marvel Legends, however, we are now in a different era. Turns out among all these crazy legends, the most interesting is actually an uncommon, and what a card this is, Captain America.

[0:45] Whether it's vehicles, mana dorks, or the captain himself, after assembling the deck immediately after spoilers and doing some testing, I can confidently say this is the best vehicles and spacecraft commander, and it's not close. Yeah, screw throwing frisbees, we are driving the Reaver type. I mean, look at this board. Yeah. Drop Captain, and this entire board is online, even the spacecraft. How did that work? Well, we use the land the factory to pilot the aerial surveyor, and the surveyor pilots the Skysovereign, the Skysovereign pilots Reaver Flagship, and Flagship stations Uthro's, the research craft. Oh, and all the pilots are untapped, including the factory. So then, we can use the Captain and the factory to finish charging our spacecraft, and we still have the Captain untapped, and the Uthro's was never tapped, so when it attacks, it has pseudo vigilance.

[1:27] So yeah, offense and defense all covered. Crazy stuff, whether it's a Gundam, a planet, or your mountain bike with flat tires, Captain's got you. Well then, let's take a look at our vehicles. So the game plan for this deck is beat down, so the aggro vehicles are the core of our deck. Starting with the classic Skysovereign Consulate Flagship. Now, this is the old and probably half of the motivation for people trying to make vehicles work since Kaladesh. Flying, solid stats, convenient crew cost, and the ping ability does help pick off utility creatures. Along with that is Consulate Dreadnought. Now, this is a bit of a difficult include for most vehicle decks, but with Captain, this is very easily crewable and it's another nice target for Urza's Saga. And after that, we have just a casual three mana six hits trample ward, the mighty servant of Lukka.

[2:10] And it's got a cool ability. You have to crew it with two creatures. Now, this is not difficult to do with Captain America and any other creature. We can get there and the draw is sweet. We do need more card draw in this deck. And a new vehicle in Mobile Module. Solid card, decent stats, crew two is convenient and the ability does help us snowball, which is needed in an aggro deck. And a few heavy hitters from the Warhammer universe, Thunderhawk Gunship. Yeah, this ship brings in pilots for itself and some extras to spare. That's always welcome and giving everything flying is essential for closing out games. And Knight Paladin, such a cool card, very aggressive, easy to drive, what's not to love? And finally, Reaver Titan, the final boss of vehicles and one of the most exciting cards in the deck.

[2:51] And that's not it. We have a few colored ones. For example, the Pride Wind Steel Flagship. Yeah, with this, every vehicle, every artifact mana rock we draw makes a two two, which is actually four four usually. Vela's Flagship is brilliant in this deck. It does everything. It's a vehicle when we need a vehicle and it makes a bunch of pilots when we have vehicles. And finally, the top end, the dream, Parhelion II. Just casually pooping out zero angels. And after this, we have the utility vehicles. Now, they're called utility, but they I mean, they're all vehicles, so they can do solid beat down as well. Starting with ramp, Cultivator's Caravan and Cargo Ship are excellent mana dorks. Meanwhile, Aerial Surveyor and Regalia will get us reliable lands. And finally, the omen kill, which is a personal favorite.

[3:32] I mean, it does have a front side, but it's not super relevant because this ability is great. It's not exactly ramp, but hitting with this and a few other vehicles just once and we have lands for rest of the game. For card advantage, we have Smuggler's Copter and the Weatherlight, excellent for digging us into more vehicles, but nothing beats the Indomitable. Now, this is a ridiculous card. We get to draw per creature and it recurs itself. Definitely one of the best cards to get in the early game. And you can't forget about Shorikai, probably the single best vehicle there is, mostly because it's not really a vehicle. I mean, that ability is just so good. It gives you cards and a token. Like, how often do you want to attack for eight rather than just getting value? Like, I know we should be attacking, but it's it's just so hard to resist.

[4:13] It's very difficult to crew for the average pilot, but things are much easier when you have Skysovereign and Parhelion II in the cockpit. And then we benefit from Captain America's ability, so we can both draw on our turn and draw again at the end of turn. Yeah, I'm sorry. This card is like the perfect test to see if you are a genuine Timmy or just pretending to be. I feel every time. And just a few pieces of Ensoul Artifact as we are a bit short on that. Possession Engine is excellent. It takes a creature, makes it kind of useless, but remember, you do keep the activated abilities. And if they happen to be a strong tap ability, we are cooking. Search for a mech will probably kill whatever creature or planeswalker you want. And the unlicensed hears to keep the graveyard in check and it will be huge later on. Salvation Engine is excellent pump and recursion and an Improvise mech which can be anything.

[4:57] The planeswalker classes is a staple for any vehicle stack and it's like a backup version of our commander. And finally, the Mechtitan Core. Now, the primary function of this card is a protection spell for our vehicles. For five mana, we can protect four of them. Although the token we make is, I guess, decent in a pinch. Like, I wouldn't usually proactively make the token because with Captain America, the four vehicles can usually do more damage. But say we need a life link or something like that. Yeah, we can make the token. But for the most part, again, it's for protection and reusing some ETBs on vehicles. And that's it for the vehicles. But we're also going to include some spacecraft. They just work so well with this deck. And I mean, when you crew a vehicle and then use that to station a spacecraft, it's just such a perfect curve.

[5:37] And with the ability of Captain America, even the most demanding spacecraft can be charged within a turn. Starting with Youth Rolls, a draw engine that is also an excellent attacker and blocker. And next up, we have the Don Sire. Something like this is way too greedy for 99% of decks. Even the EOE precon, I mean, I've seen the Kilo player trying so hard to make this work. It doesn't. But here, it's perfectly reasonable. And finally, the Extinguisher is like a removal and a board wipe. Kills Captain, unfortunately, but yeah, just a cool card to play. Now, we don't have a ton of choices for spacecrafts, but we do have Star Trek coming up, and that will definitely shake things up. Okay, and that was the core of the deck. Seeing all these sweet cards should be reason enough for you to build the deck, but the deck does need some extra help because honestly, I feel like the vehicles could use a bit more pushing, especially on the top end.

[6:25] I mean, looking at these, they're cool, but imagine these being just creatures with these stats and abilities, they wouldn't even be that pushed. And again, imagine these being creatures, just dropping this on turn five, this on turn six, and turn seven, you're probably not winning games, not even in bracket two. So, to speed up pressure, we're going to need ramp, lots of ramp. Now, specifically, what works with Captain America are these cards, the creatures that tap for mana. If we drop one of these on turn two, we can drop Captain and a four-drop vehicle on turn three. And the turn after that, we have eight mana. And of course, these ones are the best. And oh yeah, if you have a Metalworker, put that in. These ones are a lot weaker, but I'm still playing them over the Arcane Signets and Fellwar Stones because synergy. We have two cost reducers in Sid and the new Shuri.

[7:07] Now, the cost reduction is great, but the abilities are also really useful. Oh, and also these two, I heard they're okay. I don't know, might need some testing. The only non-creature ones are Sol Ring and the Eternity Elevator Station 20, easy peasy. For other utility, it's pretty typical for a deck like this. We have card draw, lots of card draw because we are depleting our hands fast, and we happen to be in blue for a mana draw seven, no problem. Simulacrum Synthesizer is ridiculous. With this, every vehicle now comes with a pilot, and they are massive. And also, Lita, Mechanical Engineer. This card does everything we want to do and can just make two vehicles for eight mana. Now, because we are a vehicle stack, we don't have a lot of creatures. So, we are playing five board wipes that only hit creatures.

[7:47] And also these ones, they can keep Captain America around. Yeah, these are basically all one-sided board wipes. We clear the board, then crew the vehicles, and finish the game. But, speaking of finisher, of course there's the one and only Akroma's Will. Yes, even in a vehicle stack it's ridiculous. For lands, the only utility that really stands out are these creature lands, the Mishra factories, the Mutavaults. Because these ones, you turn them on with Captain America on the board, it can crew twice or crew and then tap for mana. Well, that's a neat little synergy there. Aside from that, we have the two planets. I mean, they're they're cool. Yeah, they're just really fun to turn on cuz it's not that difficult for us. And these ones that have artifact an Urza's Saga can get Sol Ring or a Consulate Dreadnought.

[8:28] And there you have it, Captain America. The deck is kind of explosive. I mean, it's supposed to be aggro beatdown, but the vehicles are not cheap even with all the ramp we have. Now, the advantage here is that we can dodge a lot of board wipes that would ruin most other aggressive creature decks. And also, we're in blue. As long as you have ramp and card draw, your deck can't be too terrible in the late game. It's fairly straightforward to play. Now, the crewing takes a bit of fiddling and figuring out, but it's actually really fun. Right. And the budget is mid. It It can be much lower. I don't I mean, you don't really need a Metalworker. Now, this deck technically is bracket two, but I think it's better suited for bracket three. I think so. But, it does depend on your local group. For game changers, I I guess Ancient Tomb is always good. Teferi's Protection is helpful.

[9:10] But, aside from that, yeah, it's your pick. Wandering Splinter Twin, whatever. But, yeah, that's it. Thank you for watching the video. I do have a sponsor in Kakapopo TCG. They have excellent, beautiful products. Take a look at their stuff. And I do have a discount code, levels all cap, for 5% And that's all. Yeah, the new set is is looking good, looking good. I'm looking at a few legends, so I'm looking to build some pretty interesting and unique. Now, I do try my best to test these decks before making a video because, you know I want to make sure these actually work but the time is definitely limited. I mean this was spoiled what two days ago. I did get about five games in with this deck and it's it's a blast. It's a blast. So yeah, this is something I think you can build with confidence especially considering the upcoming sets.

[9:55] Okay, that's all. I will see you in the next video.
