# Flubs's LAST chance to make something happen before I take him apart | Playing With Myself Ep.2
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/kRjnVCKGKK0
date: 2026-02-05 | views: 2,033 | likes: 42 | comments: 27 | length: 1:01:27 | words: 9,428 | wpm: 153.5

[0:00] So, in the first episode of Playing with Myself, I I promise this title is tentative. I'm I will come up with something better. Maybe, maybe. I don't I don't know. But Flops couldn't quite get there. So, we are going at it again. Flubs versus your average table and see if we can do better this time. We are facing the same three decks. The Master Mill along with Kalia. It's a typical Kalia deck, and Bellow, but with artifacts instead of enchantments. And I think I'm getting better at this, but I still made quite a few mistakes that I caught during editing in terms of rules, in terms of forgetting triggers or anything else. If you catch any, please let me know because there's a decent chance that I missed it even after editing and that will really help me improve and avoid similar mistakes in the future.

[0:43] All right, let's jump to the game and see how our boy does. Playing with myself cuz it's lonely at the top. Okay, with no further ado, let's pick our starting player. It's going to be okay, the master. We draw the opening hand. Land. Ramp. Land. Land. Okay, looks good. We want some gas. Oh, that is gas. But mill, please. We want something to mill with, but I mean, can't go wrong with this really. No. Yeah, it doesn't get much better than this. Okay, keep ambul. Okay, this is I like it. I like this is a good hand because we can I mean we don't have to Kalia if we don't draw something big we can just hard cast the dragon and if Kalia dies we have the quick summer emolet back up although none of these none of these is too safe with flops on the field he is fine uh draw oh another man rock okay that's land let's hope flops doesn't get a fast start otherwise none of this is taking yeah meanwhile flops is trying to do something okay okay yeah worldly

[1:47] theater is sweet Okay, this is fine. We have four lands and uh basically Nusa here. So yeah, this seems like a keep bellow. what is this? I mean just these four cards I'm keeping because I can drop this on turn two, right? Right. So yeah, keep and let's see what what else we get. Okay, blink moth earn. Hopefully one more land. That was a little risky. Yeah, but we're still keeping. We're still We're going all in, right? This is what artifact decks do. Great. Pass the turn.

[2:27] I don't mean pass the turn. I mean uh starting the game because we haven't played our first turn yet. So, the master starts draw. Good. Good. We want some mail cards, but payoffs are also good. So, we play a land. I think we play this as a land for now. Yeah. Good. Pass the turn. Oh, sorry. I played Kalias turn one already. Wait, was No, no, no. My apologies. That was okay. Already a misplaced. Okay, so no draw. Play my turn one. Pass. So of of all the decks, I only played a turn here and didn't do anything elsewhere and didn't even realize my apologies. But everything should be back back in order. Okay, flops draw land. No rush with the tutor. And also dreamscape artist is sweet.

[3:08] Unfortunately, we don't get to play it on turn two because we are uh we might not be a depends. We'll see. Pass. Draw. land into soaring. That's a little bit dangerous, isn't it? If so gets blown up, we are actually But if we don't do that, maybe we play it safe, honestly. Cuz maybe we can do this and next turn we workshop into blink moth burn because no one floss they have, you know, 20 artifact removals in the deck. So we turn to blink earn and then they will blow this up and we can keep the soul ring. Right? If they have one piece, if they have two pieces, I mean what can we do, right?

[3:49] Play it safe and we see how it goes. Untapping with the master draw. Play a land. Uh play this land and we ramp into tango floor. Good pass. Kalia untaps. Draws with a land into a signate. Yeah, we'll get a Calia next turn probably. Pass. on top. Draw into a land. Yeah, we're going to get Isuza. So, we are not going to play the artist. We're going to play Isuza next turn and Isuza will give us two more lands that we can use to play the artist. Is that right? Maybe not 100% because this land just tapped, but we do have mana up. We have a braid. Oh, no. We need to save 42. Yeah. So, let's pass the turn.

[4:30] Bellow draws. We uh Okay, that's interesting. We We do need lands. Maybe we No, I think it's still the earn. Earn is still correct. Blink moth iron. One, two, three, four, five for blink moth iron. Next turn, we have two more mana from the earn. And if we're desperate, we'll dig with Razer Scoreboard, but for now, we're okay. Pass. The master is like, what is happening here? What is this start? This is not fair. Draw. We drew a land. Nice. Um, I think we dropped the master here, right? That's our mill. That is our mill engine. Yeah, let's drop our master. And we have kind of a curve. We can ramp later. Yeah, let's play a prismatic vista. Pay one, get a land.

[5:16] And the master. And this time I think normally I ride myself, but this time I think I ran Kalia just because we have so many other pieces of reanimation. Just getting one hit would be sweet. So rad Kalia and pass the turn. Cali untaps draw removal. Let's mill one. Mill two. Okay, nothing happens here. Actually, that's what the master wants. So, not good for Kalia, but let's play land. And do we drop Kalia? I think we do. Let's drop it. H. Yeah, might as well. Or amulet. I think we draw Kalia. We want to drop amulet later. So, Kalia, it kind of the removal bait.

[5:57] If you have it, you have it. If not, at least we get some free value. So, pass the turn. We end the turn. We're going to worldly tutor for there's no other target. It's just or in our case Miku. Yeah. Solid crossover. There you go. Miku on top. Shuffle on top. Draw. Play a uh Yeah, I don't know what I was thinking. There's no way we can draw both Miku and uh Dreamscape artist. That's fine. Miku pay one life drop and uh two ends. Play land. Play this land as well.

[6:38] We are off to a great start. Pass the turn. Hey, we survived with the blink moth earn. Look at that. And we hopefully top deck of land or things are getting wonky. Oh, the one ring. What do we even uh what do we even do? Yeah, I think I know. So, Nexus of the coming. So, we have one, two mana already. 3, four, five, six mana for a nexus of the coming we enter the combat. Yes, we do. So, enter combat and draw one. That's has a land and uh play a razor scoreboard.

[7:19] So, uh, this is actually a three three and this card is actually exiled, but I'm using it here to represent and when at least play, we will, yeah, we will remove it. Meanwhile, we got speed. Looks like I have a lot of speed in my decks, even though it's not the most powerful or the most popular mechanic. Speed one. H, draw two. Discard one, right? Yes. Draw two. Discard. Uh, let's discard. Uh, I don't even know what to discard anymore. Maybe the the land. The land is fine, though. Yeah, stone calendar. This is not the most efficient So, we do want to play this land. And all of a sudden, we have the one ring. Well, look at this. Blow blow this up, Mr.

[8:00] Fluffs. Uh, do we lose life? No, we don't. Oh, we do lose two life. Yes. And might as well use it now. Draw a card. Lose a life. Put a ring on it. Good turn, guys. Good turn. And clearly right now, Bellows is the problem. And uh let's see how people deal with us. So master untaps Unfortunately, we didn't get anything that we can reanimate. But we do have two more mill on Calia. Do we hold this? I don't think so as per the matches because if we mill something, the master will take it anyways. So I think we just We just ramp.

[8:40] We just ramp. Yeah. And hope for the best with the rad. Uh, ramp is going to get us. We want one blue, one black, black here. Blue islanding hit. Shuffle. Boom. Here we go. Pass the turn on top of Kalia. Rad one. Rad two. Okay, we got something. master got something. But let's see how Kalia plays the turn first. Kalia is going to play a land.

[9:22] Honestly, at this point, I think we just aggro into the stupid bellow. Yes. And also, we can do a few combats. Not not for a lot of damage, but okay. Okay, let's do it. So, Cal um Cali attacks, drops the Ghostban Dragon. Oh, is that even good? It's not amazing. I'm thinking Yeah, I'm thinking we use waves of aggression. Might as well. Might as well use it. Yeah. So, everything to bellow. Oh, we can't attack bellow. It's protected. So, let's attack flubs then because I hate flops. So, one, two, three, four, five, six damage to flops. And um yeah, waves of aggression on tap.

[10:08] On top. We have nothing to drop, which is very sad. But what can we do again? Into flops because the master can grab ratos to block. Actually, the dragon can attack master because the rats is only a three three. So, Kalia into flips. Dragon into the master. And yeah, the master will take it. One, two, three, four. Meanwhile, Flops takes two more commander damage. Okay, so we have a gold here. This goes in the And uh that's our turn. Is it? I think so. We're going to hold this up probably for Bellow. So meanwhile, the master at the end of turn is going to tap. Yeah, things are not going to get better than this. We get a three three flying ratos patron of chaos.

[10:48] Yeah, I will use this to represent that they're dirty 33s. But this is actually a mutant while this is a golem. Slightly different. Pass the turn. Hey, fluff is like what the heck just happened? Like what? What? Why? Why am I at 31? Look, look over there. But we have to do something about it. Let's Okay, so we have a few targets. We might just have to use it. Oh, we are one mana short, though. We want to use all three of these. Am I selfless enough to not play Dreamscape Artist? Absolutely not. Do we play Flubs first then? I think Flubs is for next turn. So, let's play a Dreamscape artist. Is that too greedy? I don't know if we can blow everything up anyways. So dreamscape artist and then we play uh attractus fall destroy target artifact battle enchantment creature of flying trackus fall is going to target nexus of becoming I'm sure that's the best one right right yes maybe or is it blink puff no I think it's nexus yeah let's do the nexus boom that's it yeah we had us I

[11:52] think now this is looking not like the best start we should ah we needed more lands But again, we already got five on turn what, turn three. Turn four. Yeah. So, it's not the worst. Okay. So, yeah, we are a bit slow here, but hopefully next turn we can start choo chooing with the flops and pass the turn. Okay, we kept most of our board. This is better than expected. Bellows is happy. Untap. Lose one life and uh yeah, one. Yes, draw one. Play a land. I think it's I hear flips music. Do I? Yeah, that sounds like flops. Um, we play flips and we hold up legalis quick reflex.

[12:34] So, do we have the mana for that? We first of all, we have one, two, three, four mana floating. so that means what that means? I think we're going to draw cards first. Yeah, we'll see what we can draw into first. Draw two. Mirror works. That's a good card. Not what we need right now. We are a bit stuck with our colors because this will give us flips, but we will not have protection up. Without protection, I'm a little bit concerned about our board. Although, we're probably fine anyways. I mean, if flips if Bellow dies, we just cast it next turn.

[13:17] Yeah, we don't have Do we Wait, wait, wait. Sorry. I think I miscalculated. No, I didn't. because this turns into this and yeah so let's try it let's try it uh boom into bellow and let's attempt to declare combat with these two idiots also I forgot that we don't need to do this because of blink moth earn I'm sorry so let's do this and just float the two mana sure why not we have enough mana let's do that and let's enter combat and this is when Kalia says hold up I've been saving this for you. Target battle. It's unfortunate, but to be expected.

[13:57] Yeah, we got a sweet opening hand, but not the right colors. But still, our follow-up is decent. One, two, three, four, five into mirror works and pass the turn. Yeah, that definitely hurt, but what can we do? Pass the turn. Kalia saves the day. Who would have thought? Untap with the master. Sorry. Give me a mail card. That's not a mail card. We play a land. Oh, could the land be this refuge? Might as well play it because then we can Oh, but our colors are weird. We can pass the turn. And yeah, and hopefully Kalia gets something else. Oh, sorry. I forgot to do this minus one.

[14:38] So, there's one more rat on the Calier. Yeah, we can also hold up once in future in case we want to bring back the We don't. Yeah, this is not great. This is not great. But we do get to draw two more cards hopefully at the end of our turn because with Rats we are going to target let's see target Kalia right Kalia would have to sacrifice two non non token permanence Kalia says no so we draw two cards we drew not great so we discard those discard and uh island I guess at least we can do this flare for free sacking sacking this or we can do it in response to removal right very clever Yeah, pass the turn.

[15:19] Calia somehow untapped. You can see the ones the one time they have no disruption. We don't draw the gaps, but maybe that's why they're not they're not dealing with us. So, let's draw the route and let's mill one more. Holy crap. The master is the master is thrilled. Meanwhile, we are going to have to punish flubs for all the crimes. So, we're going to attack into flubs. Get a gold token. And flubs can't do much, can they? Yeah. Takes six. But now, everyone can see that Kalia is out of gas. And we do drop the puke. But who do we bog? We bog ourselves. Is it too late? Is there anything else for No, we don't bog ourselves.

[16:00] Let's bog the master. Yeah, we want to make our land drop. Okay, the master gets bogged and we hold up one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Nine mana. Do we drop the signate? No rush, honestly, because what are we going to cast? Um, yeah, let's save it. Let's save it for now in case the board or something comes. So, the master then does his thing. Grabs runar who's an idiot. There's a derpy 33 flying though. And we can search for something that we can use at instant speed. How brilliant. Drown in dreams. That looks solid. We can mill for We can draw what? four and mill someone for eight.

[16:42] But it's only target player though. But I I don't Yeah, this is the best instant speed option. We can still do drown in dreams in hand. Shuffle shuffle. Solid. The turn passes to floats. Untap. So untap. Draw. Why? This is not good. Think we play flubs. We have to. And we araid discarding the gutter snipe. And next turn we can song. Let's uprade the mirror works. Seems fine. Upgrade on the mirror works. See, Kali, I'm your friend. I your And discard snipe and pass.

[17:27] Next turn will be good. I promise. Flubs. Once again, we're digging digging. We lose two life. Think this one ring is going to win us the game by itself. Uh, we draw. Yes. Oh, giggling skitter spike. That would have been sick with a what's it called? Mirror works. So, but now we we still just uh draw three. Yeah, why not draw three? We got colored land. We play that. Sorry. We play that from hand. This is our hand. And we got a chromos memorial. We are cooking. I the Ugan will be amazing as well. So the plan here, I think we drop Ugan first. So we added one, two, three, four mana.

[18:11] Now we need two more for the ugene. Let's drop the Eugene. And everything now costs two less. So then can we float this term? I think that should be our primary goal, right? So, one, two, three, four mana. No, we don't have the mana. We don't have the mana. So, unfortunately, we're going to have to settle for waiting at one turn. We're going to drop our giggling skitter spike for one, two.

[18:54] It's only It's only two mana. Yo, artifacts are so cheap. But flips is so expensive. Yeah, for two mana we're dropping this. Then with Uin, we are going to destroy something. That something is going to be That's tough. I mean, Kala is pressuring us, but they haven't dropped anything on his board. Is looking like the The master is getting so much value. So, yeah, let's blow up the master. And we saved mana to monstrous to monstrous are scaring spike. Not the faster turn, but next turn we'll be good. Well, the master gets to Well, the master is gone, but ah, my apologies.

[19:36] I forgot to do one thing. In response to the master dying, we're going to draw in dreams because then we can mill and draw at the same time. We're going to draw four cards. Four cards. That correct? Yes. Meanwhile, we mill our best friend Kalia for eight. One, two, three, four, five. Brilliant. Six, seven. Holy craps. Uh, okay. Eight. That is a good eight. That is a good eight. So, on top. Sorry about the misplay, but instance are difficult. On top, draw reanimate. Okay, we are getting the whole package then. Um, what's the graveyard looking like? There's no graveyard. No, no creature here, I believe.

[20:18] But we still do it. We still do it. What we do is reanimate into this the mophosm. Let's see what's in uh fluff graveyard. Nope, there's nothing. Yeah, let's into meoplasm. So, first reanimate um yeah reanimate targeting rasath seems like a good target. So, rascath hold up one second. Rascath is a good target. No, maybe. Yeah, it's fine. Okay, so we lose eight life.

[21:00] At the same time, we are going to the minimum plasmant on Valkoth. Let's pay the mana first. One, two, three, four. You know what? You know what I'm thinking? We should just hold. We should do instant speed everything with Alchemist Refuge. That's how good refuge is because then we can we still have five mana so we can reanimate and we can uh espress the magic. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. I I will do that. I will do that because that's so powerful and yeah and we have a decent board already. A lot of the removals in this game especially flops is sorcery speed.

[21:40] So we want to hold. I think that's the best play. So we discard and pass. Uh well, first we have to do this. Ratal's targeting once again Kalia. We will draw two cards. We love Calia so much. So we're keeping one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Are we keeping a land? I guess we keep a land instead of flare. I don't think we have a window to cast flare anymore. So let's keep this. At least it can be a spell. Sorry about the confusion of the mess here. Um here is the seven I'm keeping. We're going to and pass. At this point, Kali is considering, do we route? I don't think so. We don't kill enough. Yeah, we are really stuck. We need I mean, we got all the good stuff got mil.

[22:22] It's going to be used by the master instead of ourselves. So, I think we just hope route and use our dragon. Oh, we got this dragon. That's a good dragon. But again, we are not really short on mana. We're short on Also, I just remembered one thing. I should use dice to keep track of how many times I've cast a commander, even if they're not in the command zone. I will do that now. I'm trying to improve, trying to get better at the representation of things, but there are definitely problems. Please let me know if there's something you want me to fix. But with this board, I think the best way is to drop drop quicksilver amulet and try to instant speed our ancient copper dragon. So that's that. So amulet and meanwhile we are going to attack into somebody probably bellow again.

[23:04] Oh. So this one into Ugan, this one into bellow. And we are doing our part, my friends. We are doing our part. So Bella will take four and Ugan is dead. Meanwhile, we make one more treasure. This is a very strange game for Talia. Pass. Also an awkward game for flips. I'm tempted to discard song creation. It's so good. But but I starting to think we discard the song. Yeah. Yeah, discard the song unfortunately. But this is the correct play, I'm pretty sure. because then we can activate dreamscape artist and get two lands. So we sacrifice one land here and we get two lands and then we can start our chain again.

[23:46] Hopefully drop more lands. Now we are very behind. We are not in a place where we can answer things but hopefully we can set up for one turn or maybe two turns and then we can start doing things. Hopefully they can fight fight fight it out for once. The Cali is doing okay and the master is it's fine. So yeah leeching off of the the ones with a head start. Uh let's get forest. That's fine. Let's get a This deck has a total of seven basics. I have to be careful, but I don't think we are close to running out yet and play a land. First land draw. Second land draw. Cyberman conversion. Let's convert. Who do we convert?

[24:27] Let's target creature face. Um I guess the I mean Cali had Cali hasn't dropped anything for for three turns. So I think we leave her. Let's convert the glitter glittering glitter spike. And meanwhile, Bellow has to think about this. I think it's fine. I mean, it's a cool card, but we have to save this protection for Bellow, right? Look at all these powerful things we have in hand. So, it's fine. Let's untap this. Oh, sorry. Let's flip this. It's a two two Cyberman. And uh let's draw Punkifi. I mean, rapid hybridization. We hybridize. Who? We We're still going for Bellow. Bellow is just pretty far ahead right now.

[25:09] So, we hybridize this stupid thing. Doesn't do that much though. Maybe the Ratoss. Maybe the Calia. No, we're still we're still against Tibello. So, boom. This is exiled. Congratulations. We turned your 3- three into although it's really a useless 33, but it's an artifact, so it can become useful once spells is on the on the field. Unfortunately, we couldn't find the right token. We the frog lizard. We found an ape. This could be relevant because there's total virus in this deck, but it probably won't be. Probably won't be. Yeah. So, let's draw our second card. Third, sorry. Our next card. Nous revival. That's a good card. We revive what? We revive. Oh, Song of Yo, that's good.

[25:53] But then if we revive it, if we revive it, one second. Then next turn we will have two cards in hand. How about we have the overall? Okay, we are set. Okay, let's hold this and not play anything else, right? Is that correct? No, I think it's fine. I think we can keep playing. Yeah, because we can then draw one more card, right? So, no rival paying paying life and targeting the song of creation. Meanwhile, we draw a card. Yeah, that's our third land. So, this is on top. Play our third land. The song is in our hand. Okay. Do we play the song? I don't think if we draw another land, this is really good, but I think we wait till next turn for Yeah, I think we wait till next turn.

[26:37] Let's do that. Pass. Okay, Bellow has all this mana for what? Oh, I guess we can uh we can create a power stone. Let's use our hall of tanks It's called power stone. Yes. Okay. Okay, I couldn't find a power stone token. So, this will do. It's drawn power stone tapped, but it untaps with the board. So, we untap and lose three life to our one ring. We have to finish the game fast if we're going to finish it at all. So, uh first we add one, two, three. Is this an artifact? Yes, it is. Four, five, six, right?

[27:18] No, five. Yes, five mana. with the five mana. We're going to play uh no, we're going to use the firewood thicket and this as mana source to make red and green. So, we have four mana left and we're going to cast bellow. And bellow costs uh five total. We've got sorry, five minus one. So, we've got one left, one floating. And with the one floating, we're not going to waste any time. We're going to just f the workshop. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.

[27:59] Take two and drop a cornos memorial. Just like What are you going to do about it, people? We don't have enough mana for shamanic revelation, which would be really nice, but I mean, we can draw into more mana, maybe. So, let's see. We attack with everything because flying vigilance, uh, the damage can be kind of evenly split. Let's make it kind of even. Although, we do know the what's it called? The master has a lot of mana open. But, I mean, we have pro black. How afraid are we? Not really. I mean, we can send the instru.

[28:43] What else can go? The ape can go. Seems fair. Meanwhile, the important ones will go at Kalia because Oh, wait. No, Cali can drop blockers, too. One second. Hold up. Okay, so unless Kalia drops an angel and we still have Chaos Work, we are So, yeah. Oh, let's let's leave do we leave flops alone? I don't want to leave flops alone. Okay, let's do this. Across Memor Memorial into flops and these two. So, in terms of importance, this is the least the most important go into flops. These two go into Kalia and everything else goes into the master. The master is thinking, let's see the graveyards again. We can grab demons, but they're not going to help us block.

[29:26] We can grab this dragon, which will help us block, but then we miss out on one of these demons. Is that worth it? I want to say maybe. Yeah, we can reanimate the dragon to block one of them. We can also mimoplasm. I think we take it because then we can surprise uh Valavoth and just link some life, right? So, I think I think we're fine for now. Even if we get the dragon, we we don't want to risk it dying, right? We we want to get our little dragons out to make the tokens. So, I think we take it. So, the master takes 4 plus 3 plus two. That's nine. Ouch.

[30:06] Do we route? Sorry, I should have thought about this earlier, but I'm tempted. I'm tempted. Everything on that side has indestructible, right? So, yeah, I think I think we're fine. We're at 39 life, so let's take it. We take the three plus four, also not doing commander damage. It's probably not relevant. And flubs flops will take the damage, of course. Take Okay, this is a good turn for Bellow. We are drawing. We've hit with one, two, three. Draw three cards. Is that right? Yeah. No one blocked. So draw three. We get to play a land. The land will be this one.

[30:48] It's going to be the green side. Yes. And do we play anything else? We can hold this for card draw. We hold our our chaos working pass. Okay. This is the master's music flash. At the end of turn, we're going to reanimate uh Razakv, I believe, is the correct. Yes, Razakov uh Lucate life. Okay. Hold up. Is Razakth correct? I still think it is. Yeah, I think it is because then we can Did we pay mana?

[31:30] We didn't. Sorry. Pay for reanimate. Then we can sacrifice a thing like this. This is uh I believe ghost in the graveyard, right? Yes. Ghost. So, we go down to eight life. We need lifelink now. But we get to our entire deck for anything four mana or less and we can just do it right now. And something that can get us Valkoth would be sweet. Arcane Heist is also really good because I can cast it now. Oh, never mind. I don't have the colors. No. Although I can still cast it on my opponent or on my turn. Let's see. if there's something really good in the graveyards, we can use it.

[32:11] Uh, one second. Let's take a look at graveyards first. Thinking cap on. We can get ruinous. Okay, so this alone is worth it. Yeah, this alone is worth it. We get Oh, but then we don't get a lifelink. Eight life is risky, but we can take some risks, right? So, espress to match. Oh, no, no, no. We don't use this. slight mistake. Slight mistake. I think we use once and future to return two cards to our hand. one of them will reanimate although we have to be very careful with that.

[32:54] And uh the other one will be I guess drown in dreams is fine or get a drown uh flare of cultivation because we don't want to drop a land for three life. So what we're going to do now is we're just going to straight up use it and oh this is exiled once in future. We're going to straight up get the ramp get two basics island. Now we were short on blue Does anyone want to do anything with this board? I think no because killing these two.

[33:38] I mean, Kalia can route. Meanwhile, Bellow can chaos orb, but I think yeah, I'm not I think it's too late at this point. We just see what happens. And hopefully we find a window to strike and kill this person at eight life. So, let's untap. And uh we draw for turn. So our first play will be to straight up arcane heist. Is that a good play? That sounds like a pretty good play. Yeah, we desperately need life, but blowing up everything seems decent. So Arcane Heist one, two, three, four, and we will attempt to target the ruinous ultimatum.

[34:22] Kalia, what do you say? I think we route at this point because otherwise otherwise they will cipher, right? And then we'll get another spell. So I think we just route. Yeah, that seems correct. And we're losing our treasures anyways, right? So 1 2 3 4 5 six seven. Yeah, we are the first to respond casting route on top of the runest ultimatum or this is the stack. We'll figure it out. And also yeah, this is fine. I should order it better like this. Okay, flops is is sad, but we are not screwed because of the song in our hand. So, yeah, no responses. I guess we let Bella respond. Uh, draw four.

[35:04] Put a ring on it. Draw four. One, two, three, four. Yeah, there's a lot we can do here. So, um, we still hold up chaos. Do we use it now? I don't think so. I think we can wait. So, we lose the this thing. Yeah, in the graveyard lose the and we lose our commander which will cost seven mana. Everything else stays. Okay, now we have a question for the master. Do we do one more tutor? I think we do. We do. Yeah, it's just two I mean three two life, right? Yeah, two life is too too good to pass up on even when we are at eight life.

[35:46] So, sorry here. It's got something that can gain us life. And again, it's it's just um and with the board right now and the board is being cleared. So, we're just worried about Bellow. That's it. And Bellow is not really great at removing things. Vgovoth is pretty safe against spot removals, right? So, I don't see too much. Uh what's it called? Breach. Um, yeah, we don't have enough mana for that. We can do it for just a soaring just to just to get a bump in mana.

[36:27] I think that's not the worst idea. Or we for something for later on, but I do think getting that mana boost is helpful or this as a win condition later on. They a little bit too because we do have a one-two punch here. We can use this to middle half the library and we can use this to win. Also, this will help us stabilize, right? So yeah, we need to finish fast even with Algavoth. So let's do this. Let's t for the monument. Yeah, the middle plan seems good. And at the same time, we're gonna Okay, we're done tutoring. So then the stack resolves. So everything gets blown up. Kalia gone. Dragon gone.

[37:07] Amulet gone. Uh Razak is gone. On this side, we lose these. Flubs is We lose power stone soaring. That's the board. Can we kill someone? We are at six life. But if we uh can we do 19 I don't think we can do 19 damage here. Isn't anything big Yeah, Vaboth is still correct. All right, Vaga. Voga.

[37:47] Voga. Let's go. So, grab this with the mimoplasm. Uh, melasm is vagaboth is actually exiled, but just a representation. And we exile something big here. Uh, we might need it more than Razak. Let me let me think about that again. Okay, Ratos can't go. We This is what we really don't need. That means six counters on our goof. Hopefully we get a swing on this empty board. Pass the turn. Kalia is quite sad to say the least. Uh we are going to draw farewell but I guess we are saving up for farewell or the dragon next turn or John sign pass the turn.

[38:28] Yeah, this game has been rough for Calia. It's just kind of giving gas to the master. That's the entire purpose. We draw sum of creation. Do we flops? question. I think we do. Oh, wait. If we flubs, we draw two cards on the two in the two cards. We have to hope for No, I think we play normally. I think we we skip flops for now. So, land land into fire incription. The ring temps me. I don't think it's relevant here. We don't have creature. So, we draw two cards. We play uh sore ring. Draw two more cards. Um, we play a land.

[39:09] That's our first And do No, we cannot hold anything because the song. So, we play a Burgie. Draw two more cards. Hopefully, one more land. We got one more land. And the land is going to be tapped because we can't cast anything. Yeah, this is a solid setup turn. We're at 25 life, so it's not looking too bad. Discard pass. Okay. Bellow with a sweet start, but now feeling the burden of the ring. Lose one, two, three, four life on top. shouldn't use that chaos work. Maybe we should have used that chaos word. But what target? I can't think of a target. Oh, maybe we should have targeted the one ring. Maybe. Maybe.

[39:50] Okay, so now we have a problem. The problem is we cannot die to Valoth, which is 15 15 power. And right now our plan, I guess, is to chaos warp it so that we can sacrifice three permanence, which includes this. But three permanence is a lot of permanence and we don't have that much to stack. I think we just have to Yeah, that's our only game plan. We We are desperate. So, we are going to semblance of anvil. Let's go. Actually, no. Sorry. First, we're going to draw some cards. One last protection spell Okay. No, we don't lose life. We just get a ring counter, a burden counter.

[40:31] And um yeah, let's play the semblance info to exile. I don't think we need. So maybe this cuz it costs more. This can also exile the one ring, but I think we're on the chaos war plan. So this is now what if the Valoth doesn't attack us, right? It's probably this. Yeah, let's not be too greedy here. We are desperate. So the one what's it called? The Wonder Worers Crucible has been exiled. And we uh yeah, we we pay mana for things. We pay two life and two mana for um mystic forge.

[41:16] And we need just one more permanent. Oh, we have three permanents now. But we want to keep this on the board, right? So, let's uh Yeah. Oh, we don't have enough mana then, do we? Oh, are we one short? That's just so Did we play a land? I don't think so. I don't remember playing a land. So, let's do that. If if I mess up here, I apologize, but I think we're fine. So, now we have enough just enough to three, one, two, three for the banner of kingship. Yeah. But then it's sad because we are the target for sure, right? For Vas our board.

[41:58] What can we do? What can we do? Pass the turn. Okay. Meanwhile, Valgoth is staring down Bellow like, what is happening over here? I don't know. But we untap with lots of mana and a solid board. Yeah, cannot ask for too much more. So, we draw, play a land. We can even untap our Valkoth to block with. That's sweet. Um, let's see. Okay, I think we attack Yes, this happens. And Bellow will do the plan. We're going to use Chaos Warp to target the Mia here. And do we allow the sacrifice trigger to happen?

[42:43] If we can remove two things, right? But I don't think there's a like we can we can espec for for the demon the deer demon but I don't think because this deck is built to rely on other people's decks. I don't think we have something that can remove two permanence. We do have uh we have cyclonic grift but this is four mana for espers and we have six mana here. Oh no so close. What do we do? Yeah, I think has to go. Okay, let's let the sacrifice happen first. So what happens is these are all sacrificed but they're actually exiled under Valkaboth under the mimoplasm.

[43:24] So one, two, three, like this. Oh, but then I get one ring. I get one ring. So we flash with this and we pay life, right? Just to make sure I'm reading it correctly. Yes, we pay life to cast this. Pay four life. Oh, wait. But we go down to two and fluffs can burn us with the fiery inscription. Not on not on this their turn, but they just need one spell on our upkeep to burn us down. Whoops. That might not be the best play. Can we protect ourselves from Flops? We can kill the inscription because flops is pretty light on wind condition.

[44:05] So if we kill the inscription, we're probably fine. Yeah, we should be able to find a way to deal with the the enchantment, Yes, I think so. I think so. Yeah. Well, let's get the protection for a turn. Might might be stupid, but and also we get a chaos. Who knows what we'll get. So, let's lose four life. Pay four life into this. Oh, and also because we can now reanimate with no consequence. Yeah, we are fine. We are fine. Okay, so let's uh do this. Oh, this is shuffled into No, this is exiled. Sorry. These are all exiled. This is exiled because it's the Moplasm. And let's shuffle the melasm into our deck.

[44:46] This is an important shuffle. Chaos work here. Uh, shuffle. Let's cut. Um, sure. Cut the water crystal. Interesting. Does that do anything here? Not too much. Not too much. Yeah, we can. Yeah, we can let all this happen. Okay, everything happens. Then we are going to Reanimate what? Reanimate. It's been a difficult game for Calia. Do we get the ghost dragon for some mana?

[45:27] No. Ancient goat dragon tyrant. We just need life gain. So, I think ruins card demon. Yeah, let's to for that can deal with the enchantment Unfortunately, looks like our best play here is to memory plunder and um yeah, to memory plunder and a removal spell to deal with the inscription. Do we do it now? I think we're fine. I think we can wait because yeah, we are protected until the next turn, right? So, let's t for that. Put in our hands. So, we have some options.

[46:08] Do we play something else? No, we're fine. We're fine. Let's keep this board. Pass the turn. Calia draw. Oh, we are at 32 life. Do we farewell on this board? I don't think we do just we are not a threat to anyone at the moment. And we want fluffs to kill the And uh yeah, Embell is not doing anything anymore. So I think we we uh or maybe we play ancient copper dragon and go for the greed, right? If we hit, we hit big. Do we hit big? No, I think we dig. We have to dig for something.

[46:49] Namely, sneak attack. Yeah. So horror. Let's play the horror or the doom whisperer and keep this man up and pass the turn. Okay. Flubs is seeing this and going, "Holy crap. We can do a lot here. We can't I don't think we can kill Calia. Maybe even we can kill Calia with the Burgie. Maybe maybe it's been a misplay by Kalia, but we'll see. So, we draw a top. Nice. So, float one colorless. Play a top. We should use Oh, this is going to get complicated. I'll use this to keep track of mana. So, we've got one red mana. I will try to use it as soon as possible.

[47:29] We'll draw two here. Or do we? Yeah, we draw two. I don't think we need floods anymore. Um, play our first land of the turn. We use our red and blue to play sorcerers class. That's super good. Make red mana. Now, to level this up all the way, we need um we need how much mana? We need two plus one. So, we have two here. Two more. And so, we need seven more mana. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. I don't believe it's worth it. don't think we'll be doing enough damage, especially when we can't even touch maybe or touch the master. Sorry. So, yeah, let's just play it. Um, we draw two first from playing it. Then we draw two and discard two.

[48:10] At this point, I think we can discard some lands. Okay. So, then we we have the one red floating. We are going to keep these two. And yeah, I think it's worth it. Stormclan artist. So far, we haven't done any damage, but we are setting up pretty well. One, two, three, four. Storm clan artist. At this point, I think the masters needs to think, do we do anything against this? I don't think so. Do we have something we can use here to destroy? I don't think so. Deadly relic route. Oh, maybe we need to route. But if we route, we're dead to this bellow.

[48:54] Chaos work. Yeah, the options are very limited. So unfortunately, we have to watch flubs do its thing. So then we get one more this and draw two more. Okay, we are going to rack up some damage here. So we find some prisoners target artifact. There's no target. So for once we are going to exile the top three cards of someone's library and we can use it. So we use one red here and we use a land but then we create one red mana and a treasure.

[49:35] Yeah, we got our storm pieces. So we do prisoner and everyone takes two. Uh then we are going to choose is it Kalia? I think Kalia has the most generically useful stuff but the master if we get something that can grade dig. Yeah, I'm going to choose the master actually because we can dig. We can use Kali's grave. Now, imagine getting the gold spend dragon with this on the field. We are the game's over. Over. So, the master will give us the top three cards exiled. We'll put here. Uh, no. Nothing good. Nothing good. So, that's that. And we are going to use our mana here. Use our mana. Resculpt. Resculpt. Targeting the one ring. Uh, that that doesn't do anything. targeting maybe just to screw over Kalia.

[50:17] Yeah, let's make sure Kalia is dead. Dead. Yeah, Kalia has no no chance of coming back. So, at this point, Kalia is really regretting the decisions at this point. At this point, Kalia is regretting the decisions. Yeah, we messed up a little bit here. So, let's do Whisper a bit. I'm not sure what we're looking for anymore. Uh, yeah. Four. Desperation. Six. Maybe this not really. 10. Yeah. 16.

[50:58] Casty. No. 20. Let's take for maybe two more just in case. We got this. So that's what we're going to keep. Somehow if we live till the next turn, we will we will live till the next next turn. Good plan. Uh, so we lost the 20 life here, right? And all we get is this lousy elemental token. Okay, so we've got the mana, sorry, the mana, one mana, and one treasure as usual. And now the master has to think, do we allow fluffs to kill everyone? So let's play one, two, three, four, leaving us with two green mana. Right.

[51:39] Tapping uh memory plunder. Although I just realized I forgot something is that flops cannot keep cards in their hand. But then Philips has the top. So they can always Yeah. So it doesn't change anything. Okay. Let's memory plunder for Yeah. Tries his fall and kill the enchantment. That is fiery thing. Something fiery inscriptions that happens. And honestly, I'm not sure we saved them because flubs can just keep digging, right? Uh but it's the best we can do at this moment. So, okay. So, this is where we draw two cards and we pay one fortune teller's talent.

[52:24] Doesn't do much, but it's one mana. We get one red here. And uh we draw two more cards. Okay, we are down. So right now we can for each mana we make we can embrace the unknown ones to dig for another damage source but I'm not sure we have enough mana. So I think we're better off digging with these anyways. Yeah we want spell quantity. So where down let's do it. We are going to target um the the water crystal. Sure the water crystal We used one mana here which we get back and yeah so cost no mana basically draw Okay we got Valica exploration and a psychonic rift.

[53:16] The rift is good but doesn't win us the game. Valica exploration can do damage but not in the way we want against against our master deck. So let's continue to cycle through. Druid class draw two collective uh collective resistance blowing up the semblance anvil. We are starting to run out of targets which is awkward. Shot two. So our second left return I believe this is so in life personal tutor does not do anything.

[53:56] We will see. Personal tutor pay one here, but we get one treasure back and we get three red. Personal tutor, we need to find a way to kill the mopplasm. Actually, we need to kill Can we net some mana? Oh, I know. Snap. Snap. Do it. If we snap, do we have enough mana to level up sorcerers class? We can tap one. One, two, three, five, six, seven. Yeah, I like that. Let's try it. Let's try it. I think it's Oh, we can't t for snap.

[54:38] Ah, we t for to do damage. Do we have still have a mystical tutor in here? Not. Oh, we do. So, we personal t for the mystical Yeah. Okay. I think we have a plan. So the plan here is we Okay, we Sorry. So this is in the deck actually. So we draw two first, right? And then we use this and this to level it up to level And now every spell we cast is boom. So we cyclonic rift something. We rift the um the the the the demon I guess.

[55:19] Yeah. Not super the wine ring, I guess. So then the master will use it to draw a card because why not? Okay, the win ring is back in club's hand. Yeah, I think we we're killing this turn. Pretty pretty confident about that. Um yeah, so we are back to mana. Mana. Yeah, then we draw two cards and we mystical tutor. Now we have to do some quick maths. How many instance or sorceries have we cast this turn? We have cast 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Yeah. So, we're just dealing seven damage.

[56:00] Um or eight damage actually if we cast our mystical tutor. Oh, no. We casted Oh, sorry. Yeah, we cast a psychonautic rift that dealt eight damage. The game seems pretty over now. We missed Goutor and the game is Yeah. And our opponents are dead. We use this mana. Okay. Boom. Boom. Boom. Also, I forgot something important because the speed here should actually be three, I believe, because we attack twice. But everything else seems accurate. We our game is over for Bellow and for Kalia. Probably should have farewell, but don't think we win anyways because we're not really progressing the game at all.

[56:44] Um, so, okay. So now we use our one extra mana just to spin top just to see. Oh, my apologies. We're supposed to draw two first and then the tutor happens, right? Then we spend time. Okay. So then we draw two and the tutor Yes, we get snap. Can Snap target our own creature? I'm pretty sure it can. Otherwise, that would be a problem. Snap. Yes, I can target my own card. What a broken instant.

[57:26] So, snap is on And we're going to spin top because to be safe, we want two spells on top. We want two spells on top. And yeah, so let's use one red to spin over snap or to spin top. Okay, we got two instance on top. That is very good. Yeah, that's our turn. Okay, so the master untaps. I believe before we draw, Philips is going to try to shoot some damage this way. I realize I'm sorry, I have to discard my hand first. Realize I made a pretty big punt because this only deals one damage now and the master is at two life.

[58:08] So if I didn't have two spells, this wouldn't even happen. So we flip All right, we draw the snap. Sorry, like I guess the snap will target Burgie. No, this feels bad. But yeah, that was a bit of a blunder. Hopefully, we don't get punished too hard. So, snap targets Burgie. Pay two. We lose one life. And now there's a window before we draw, before we get the mana for the master to respond. And also one damage on the stack. The master is going to flash. And we have uh we can mill. How much can we mill for? We can mill for the library.

[58:50] It's not a nothing. Um let's see our graveyard real quick. There is nothing here. Unfortunately, we no longer have a graveyard to work with. Yeah. So, let's take a look at flubs. And we no longer have Calia is what I meant. Uh, we can get a creature from here that could help us, but probably I think we are at our wiz end here. Yeah, I think. Yeah, even with flash, what can we do?

[59:32] Can we Yeah, if we have Kali's grave, we can do something. But okay, so this happens. make a treasure, make a mana, draw two Burgie comes back on top two lands. This and this, I guess. And uh, we use a reality shift on the It has to be It has to be a creature. So on the storm clan artist. And then we get one more treasure. Oh, we should have used the treasure. So, the L is not tapped. So, we use that.

[1:00:12] And the target here. So, we then get a treasure. And we draw two cards. Still no response from the master. And the game seems to be over. That's all. Okay. Good games. Good game. Good game. Good game. Good game. Okay, so we did it. Yeah, Flopups somehow did it. This game, if nothing else, showcases the power of Song of Creation, and I've always wanted to build a deck for Song, and Flops is just perfect.

[1:00:52] And this concludes our Flub series. We will bring another exciting commander in with a set of three new opponents. And once again, I do think I'm getting better with every video with the filming and trying to manage all the interactions and triggers. Uh, again, a lot of errors, but I feel like we did better than the first video. In the next one, I'm confident there will be more improvements. Hopefully, one day I can make a video with where people struggle to find rules mistakes. And when that happens, wow, I will be the biggest nerd of you all. Just you wait. So, thanks for watching. If you enjoy this series, please like and subscribe. There will be more. and I'll see you.
