# Live Footage of Unplayable Fodder Becoming My New Favourite Final Fantasy Commander
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/L2f55jayUwQ
date: 2025-06-08 | views: 2,587 | likes: 44 | comments: 35 | length: 45:20 | words: 5,502 | wpm: 121.4
tags: Magic the Gathering

[0:00] Oh, this is the crap uncommon. But this might be my new favorite deck. New favorite deck. Hello, this is June from Next Level Commander and recently I did a 7hour session brainstorming every single Final Fantasy multiolor legend and a crap uncommon I called it ended up becoming my favorite commander from the set. And here is the live footage. Next up, we have Zade. Tentilus thief, human mutant scout. How is he a mutant? I don't see it. Was that a tail? Oh, it's like a monkey.

[0:42] Okay, this is Yeah, this is like the kind of character that lives in the forest. He lived in a jungle all his life and then somehow is more sociable, less socially awkward than the entire main character group. uncommon. Uh when Zenang enters, gain control of target creature and opponent controls. On tap, it gains lifelink and haste. Whenever an opponent gains control of a permanent from you, you create a treasure token. This is not good. This is not good. It's like the Zedru deck. It's like the donate archetype or the act of treason deck. But the problem is the payoff is nothing.

[1:23] You get a treasure for all that. At least give me one card. You draw a card. Why can't I draw a card? If I If I can draw a card, this is buildable. You can act of treason. They can trip. You can donate things. Oh boy. What do we do? If we do active treason tribal, so we steal something every turn and then we give it back just to smack someone. And then we're defenseless. We have our treasures to block. Oh. This is the crap uncommon of the set. Give me I don't want to give up. Give me like 30 seconds. This is But I guess we have to because I know the act of treason ability is much more powerful at instant speed.

[2:13] So would a blink deck be a thing? Like you blink it. Yeah. is so much better when you do it in your opponent's turn or or you have you threaten to do it on your opponent's turn, but I don't think we have enough instantly blinks to make it work. Basically, during combat, your opponent will think that you always have a blink. So, that one, your commander is protected, and two, they can't attack you because they attack you, you take the strongest creature and block with it, and you end up with more life than you. You started, and they lose their biggest creature. That's that's really nice. That's really good. Okay, maybe Yeah, maybe this is a thing. But the problem is we cannot do slow blink.

[2:55] Slow blink doesn't do anything with Z, right? Yeah, because you don't return it till the end of turn. So, slowblink doesn't do anything. So, it has to be the immediate blink. And I doubt we will have find we'll find enough, but we will try. I hope I'm wrong. I hope I'm wrong. Blink exile return. Pretty sure pipeline we will not restrict the type. We will search with Yep.

[3:38] Slow uh fast blink. This is a slow blink. I saw number sure you control return those cart that's slow blink slow blink fast blink a fast blink oh we have some decent ones actually mimic that today no fast blink touch the spirit realm semester's end this is a slow blink I believe yes yes acrobatics is this a slow blink This can be a a slow link. No, we don't want that. Flicker of Fate.

[4:20] Good card. Yeah, it's dropping in equality real fast. We only have five. This might not work. Ooh, a frozy displacer. Parting Gust is a great card, but it's a it's a slow blink. No, that's it. Ghost way. Slow blink. Aldrazi confluence. This is a blink. Okay. You can also create a token and choose you may choose the same mode more than once. Oh, you cannot win twice. But you can Yeah, you can blink or remove something. Make to Yeah, this is good. Beggars can be choosers. Just remember to play some lands.

[5:03] What does this do? Exile. Oh, please be a fast. Nope. Slow blink. Slow blink. Fast blink. Oh, we have No, not not quite. We need more. We need more. blink. Oh, this deck needs a feather. Well, I'm so glad feather came up with a search cuz I would never I would never thought of maybe I would have, but not. Oh, please just give me Let's see. Give me one, two, five more. I need five or six more blinks.

[5:45] Slow blink. N sorcery. Sorcery. Scroll shift. Ah, good. I forgot about these countries. There's one more. There's one more. Well, you can't do it. Jazz hourglass pendant. If a player will be extra turn, that player skips the turn instead. Uh, no. Yes. Fast Nice.

[6:27] Flicker Form. I forgot about this card. Wait. Yes. Okay. We I mean we don't have that many that that can trigger a feather, but I still think it's good cuz we just need one blinking spell in hand for feather to go nuts. Kind of two is better, but just one astral drift. When you cycle, you ex Oh, it's good. It's good. Oh, and stop. Why? Get away glamour. No, against all odds, please. No, that's not even a blink spell. Other worldly. I know it's a slow blink. Ah, Pegasus exile target creature control every turn. Nice. It's even Oh, it's even payoff for for blinking.

[7:10] We have I think we have a deck. I think we have a deck. Long roll work. Astro Slide. No. Whenever. Uh, no. Morland Parallax Wave. This card is Yeah, because you can just pay four meta, hold it, and then blink any number of creatures. Well, blink up to five creatures, right? And you don't need to target five. You can just target sedane five times if you just want to blink sedane. You only get one blink, but you can in a pinch, you can use it. And you can remove five things like someone's attacking you. You fog basically or you Oh, I think we are making a blink deck.

[7:54] We will see. We will see because what else are we putting to the deck? right? Stonecloaker angel. Oh, is this No. Oh, another restoration angel. Yes. Disguise doesn't do anything. I think that's it. Oh no, there's an old border. There's an old card. What's it called? I forgot. We have to find it. We have to find it. Okay, this deck I think we might be going deep with this one. So maybe I'll leave a time stamp for the next deck if you want to skip it. Yeah, I will because this might take a little while.

[8:35] We are two hours in and this is peak and I well again I'm maybe speaking too early. We'll see. But I have a good feeling about this. Choose another heart creature. Control exalt. Joshua, nice to see you again. Coin of Fate. I saw two creature cards from No. No. Where's that old card? If I can remember the name, I can It's not here. It's called Snappers. It's not called Snap. Someone help me. Strange.

[9:15] Maybe I'll find it later. But uh for now, we are going to look for also red clone spells. that can clone Zedane but only instance. I'm not sure if there's any, but we don't want to miss it if there is. So, copy target creature. Copy creature inferno. No, it's not copy creature. Yeah, I don't think there's copying target creature in in red white instant speed.

[9:57] So, we have 19 cards and all of them blink almost. I think this is fine. And we want to because it's we have feather. We also want a Mav Mar Marvin Mav Mavinda Mavinda's Yes, because in Boros we have to, you know, get the value. We are not getting too much card advantage. Now I think we are looking for blink targets. What other synergy is there? Gain control. Oh. Oh. Oh. Stiltken. We can stiltkin because we can give some opponent's cards to what's it called?

[10:41] Stilt. We can donate someone's card to another person. Stiltskin. Sorry. Stiltskin. Target opponent gain control of another target control. Yeah. And then you pay two to give them that card. Nice. Usually we'll do this with commanders. Just swap their commanders with each other. And yeah, now we're looking for enter the battlefield cards. enter the battlefield. We don't want to play too many. We want to play a few that we can just keep linking and win the game. Hopefully, they can win the game for us. But we'll see.

[11:22] We will see. Sometime sometime worth it. Probably not. Wait, is it a com? No, it's not a combo with this, but Karma Guide. Yeah. Yeah. Sky Cleave Operation. See, this is This card is good, but I don't think it's worth a blink cuz blink spells are We don't have that many. I mean, we have a few. We want to save it for other things. We'll if we don't have enough targets, good targets, we will come But uh enduring innocence problem is we probably don't have a lot of two power things.

[12:03] We'll see. Is the marri shepherd good enough? I think it might be like it's not ETB, but we want to keep it on the board just because just because it's so much value when we landfall. I think it's worth it. Um, Hellkai Corser and this Oh, so with this on the field, I can just blink this. I don't even need to. It will bring in Zedane and then Zedane will leave. Oh, okay.

[12:44] It's like another Zedane basically. It's not super powerful, but the interaction is funny. And it's I mean, six mana is a good card. You can blink it. Oh, that's really cool. I like it. Gandalf, what does what does he do? Nothing. Flash legendary creatures. Legendary artifact trigger. Oh, double trigger. Artifact leaving double. I think that's kind of worth it. Well, I have to see if we have other legendary creatures. Uh, maybe not really. Oh, but with Gandalf, you have flash with Gandalf on tap and then you can Zedane.

[13:24] You blink Zane twice. It's like immediate insurrection. Entering or leaving? Entering or leaving? We'll see. We'll see. Okay. Aerial Extortionist interest deals combat exile target nonline permanent. Okay, this is the card we This is the kind of removal card we need. Yeah, sweet. Draws us cards. We need card draw. Gold gets us an equipment. I don't think we want equipments cuz we're blinking unless it's No, it's not worth it. Yes, this is the card we need. Uh, Angel Serenity, by the way. Yeah, because some of you maybe can't see my mouse going.

[14:08] Yeah, you can remove, you can recur, that's everything. Abdo, what does Abdull do? Exile any number until it leaves. So, you can exile. It's too slow, I think. Sam wise, I'm I'm going fast because these are small cards are small. Probably don't do much. Angel of indemnity, mana four, mana value four. I think it's worth it. I think it's good. I mean, unfortunately, for some reason, our commander is five mana. I mean, this can be four mana, right?

[14:50] I guess it's too good and limited, but fine. Arbaz champion of minus ter enters the battlefield. You choose monarch. You become monarch and it's a propaganda blinking. This we do want monarch in the game. We do because it's difficult for our opponents to target us. But this ability is not what we need. It's fine, but it's not we we'll hold it. If we can't find other good Monarch cards, we might include this. But I feel like Red White is pretty good for Monarch, right? Glorious Protector until it leaves.

[15:32] Now, this is like a slow blink, but can be used as a fast blink if we have sacks. Kind of like I kind of want to this now. How does it work? So, I have a board and then I flash this in for four mana. It exalts my board and now I can just use blink spell on the angel and it's like blinking everything. Is that right?

[16:13] And then I protect my board. Is that right? I think so. Whoa, that's super good, isn't it? Let me double check. Okay, you blink the angel. Everything comes in, trigger CTB, and then the angel comes back to exile everything again. Oh, this is nuts. I also want that. Oh, yeah. I was like, I missed it. But I also want that card. This card, right? Because the same thing when it enters exile any number create a token for each one and then you blink it everything comes in you get to Oh okay we have a deck boys.

[16:56] Oh honestly I'm sorry lightning but this might be my new favorite deck. I'll have to play it to see but this looks sweet on paper. World are we brave enough? No, we are not. We're not going to world gorge. What does this do? Scamp. No, not going to read it. Redemption choir. Redemption choir enters. If you control three or more creatures, different power return. No. Glory rise. Return all human creatures. Today is a human. What other human do we have? Probably not worth it. But exile zombies. What if?

[17:36] Just what if? No, it's not worth it. Essence of No. Bill. What's Bill do? Make two fruits. Motor load. Mother Creatures control the bust was two sentinel Sarah Leon's two creatures to talk number of artifacts controlled.

[18:17] No, I think how many cards do we have? We have 29 cards. Not that many. So I think there's still room. But how many blank targets do we have? Have like five or six good ones. There's one I have in mind. There's one I have in mind. It's like a Oh, is this good? Trove warden. No, but the one I have in mind is the the primordial molten primordial. I think that when it enters, you just steal two things or one from each opponent actually, which is really good. Until we get to that, I I would I'm willing to believe that there's other quality cards waiting for us.

[19:01] What does the Buzz Crusher do? Destroy land. No, doesn't do enough. Twilight Ash Lomb Battle one exile number of notable creatures. Oh, it's the same thing. Do we want another one of these? I don't think we need another one of these. Two is enough because it's kind of a a bit of a win more card. Like it's nuts once you get it set, but also there's not much payoff with this one. So, I'll skip it for now. Salt skitter comes into play removed.

[19:45] Shepherd. The quality is dropping. Clive. What does Clive do? Discards your hand. Draw equal to your devotion to So, we can discard our hand and draw a of three, assuming Zane is in play. What other red permanence do we have? We don't have many. Let's see the backside, although it's probably not relevant. It is not relevant. Okay. Uh, bishop of binding. Nope. No, no, no. Idolon. Oh, we can have constellation. Don't think it's good Boom weaver giant interest. Search your battlefield aura card.

[20:27] Put it on the battlefield. Attached to boom. It has to be attached to boom weaver. What auras do we have? Cuz I don't want it. The only aura is the what's it called? Flicker form. But I want that on today. So no. Fear of abduction. Leaves the battlefield. Exalt harder opponent control. No. Not good. Sagardian Savior value my value too. Nope. General Leo. Oh, okay. I'm pretty close to just searching for that card. Don't think we're Yeah, don't don't don't think we're getting House Molten Primordial Soul.

[21:07] Nobody plays that card. Card is nuts. Card is like one of the Okay, maybe not one of the best, but it's a pretty good aggro card, I'd say. Okay, let's find it. Molten. Prime ore deal. It's sweet, right? You get to steal three creatures. You get alpha strike people and then you get what? treasures. So now we have 30 cards. And of course we need some ramp. I might as well get might as well go there. We need some ramp. Uh, artifact cuz Zing is five mana.

[21:50] Five mana is a lot. We want to be able to get Zedane out and hold a blink spell as soon as possible. So, Soul Ring, is this a deck Sunforger? I don't think so. It's what two to uh Sunforger. It's a bit expensive and all we have is Blink spells. So, I'm sure we have to play some more moves, but probably not enough. Mind stone, commander sphere. Sphere is good. Yeah, sure. Roaming Yes. Yes, we want Wait.

[22:35] And we can even change the creature type by blinking it. Not good. How many humans do we have? It's just the dang. If it's just the dang, it might not be worth it. Yeah. You know what? I don't think just getting one or two. I don't really need I just need one steel to shut off to shut down most combat attempts us. So, uh sorry, man rocks animal too too big. Uh, cursed mirror is sick. Cursed mirror is one of the best man. Warm power storm fine.

[23:16] Relic legends. This is good because when you get blinked like the can tap for mana and then you blink it, you can tap lower mana. So this I think is good. Okay, we should play more but for now we will just put these. And next next uh 37 cards. We really we desperately need some card advantage card draw. So, how are we drawing cards in Boros? are monarch. Let's because again we are shutting down combat. We're trying to shut down combat. So, let's try to take monarch. Although your opponents can probably send, you know, two or three small things at you and take the monarch and then it's difficult for us to take it back.

[24:03] We'll see if we have any monarch good monarch cards. Champion is hopefully not the Court Skyland is it's fine. Ember Wild Captain. I guess it's like a backup punishment like for attacking us. I think this one is fine. I think the courts are good. Fourth. No. Yeah, I don't think we want the quartz just because again because if we get enough payoff from the monarch, your opponents will try to take it and then it's like difficult for us. We have three2 attacking us. Do we do we use Zane or so Impalis Palace Palace Jailer no Eommer Aom king of Rohan double strike when it enters put okay when enters target player becomes monarch Aom deals damage equal to its power I don't think this is

[25:08] good yeah no archon Coronation interest becomes monarch. As long as you're a monarch, then dam it doesn't cost lives. Don't think it's super amazing. Unfortunately, we are going to have to wait. Is this good? Except card sacrifice artifact one uses two. No, it's not good. Unfortunately, we have to find other ways. I was thinking, what about defector? Humble defector. So you can steal it. You can steal this Zedang and then give it again to draw two cards.

[25:54] So but the problem is you're playing you're expending one blink spell to draw two cards. In a pinch it's decent, but then you're also helping your opponents and knowing your shenanigans, your opponents are probably not going to pass the defector to you, right? Maybe we can play like a mini package with homework path. Maybe maybe because I just remember there's another humble defector in white, but I forgot the name. It's Fallout. It's a ro Yes man or something.

[26:34] man. Oh, it is. It is. Yes. Okay. Okay. Target opponent gets control of target. If yes man personal something secure securatron. Yeah. What they do? You draw two cards and put a quest counter. When Yesman leaves the owner create. Okay. This is this is good. So we play Yesman. And then we have to have a homework path package because that's what makes it worth worth doing. We don't want to waste our blink spells to draw the two cards. Now we need things to search for lands. Search for land pipeline.

[27:16] Anything red, Whoops. Too late. Let's try again. I do know about weather wafer which will be in this deck, but anything else we can search for lands with. Nope. No, no. These are all basic lands. Basic lands. Basic lands. There's Öza's cave. I think I can search for search. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Oh, this one searches for Yep. Basic land. Basic land. Basic wafer. Moon silver key searches for artifact or a basic.

[28:00] Basic escape tunnel. No. Why I want none basic. Well, I'm also looking for uh expedition map. So, oh also my favorite card, Theatic Compass. My third favorite card. And uh because we are operating mostly at instant speed, so we can afford to activate this a lot. And yeah, again getting land drops and also eventually amazer gift hawk.

[28:46] Basic basic basic basic. Did I skip this cave? Not yet. Okay, I think I know what I'm looking for. So I'm just going to search them. The first one is called expedition Boom. And then cave. Beautiful. All right. And we have 43 nonland cards. We still need more card draw. We will see what options we have. We're going to draw cards. Draw a card. Can't be too ambitious here. Draw a card. Typeline.

[29:27] Doesn't matter. Colors. White or red. Go. Think we're going to need some cards like death for Sentinel. Smothering tithe. We don't really need the one ring. We are pretty desperate for card draw. Maybe. Maybe it's good. War Room. absolutely. Now, do we want this card? We don't really have any synergy with this card, I don't think. So, no. Idol. Nope. Vanquisher whenever cast a creature spell. Nope.

[30:07] Nope. Lauren. It's a blank target and it draws his cards. It's not the best, but I think once again we are in Boros. Beggars can't be choosers. We don't have enough creatures to trigger this. I don't think enough small creatures. So, no. Seram. No. Valic Awakening. Sure. Card filtering is good. Whenever archavist of all whenever opponent searches can't really rely on that. Do we wheel? I don't think we do. Wheel is pretty wheels are pretty extreme. I'd say I don't think so. Rep. No. Mangara.

[30:48] Opponent attacks with two creatures attacking you. You draw a card. This is not going to happen much, but whenever opponent casts their second spell turn, draw a card. This is nuts, right? I guess I'll draw a lot of cards. This is close to trouble to trouble in pairs, which I will also play. Should I keep track of game changers? We have like three, whatever. We can adjust later. Throne of fraas welcome. One or more creatures you control manifest three or less. Draw a No, no, no, no, no.

[31:32] Gear Hulk. I don't I don't think this is good cuz your opponent will just take the damage. It's like five damage to one opponent. Unless your play group is super greedy, I don't think anyone will let you draw. So, no gear hook shield whenever Oh, it's artifact creatures. Okay, never mind. Cut a deal. Each opponent draws a card. Then you draw a card for each opponent who drew play. This and the secret rendevous from earlier from this set. Do we play them? We might just have to play them cuz the stuff we're doing is really powerful. We want gas. We want gas.

[32:14] Excuse me. Secret. No, no, no. This is not the one from Oh, this is Sorry. This is not from the new set, but it's in the new set. Jaxis, create a token that's copy of target creature you control. Activate as sorcer sorcery. No, this one coveted jewel again. This is like monarch where yeah, I don't think we can defend it too well. We can defend our life total well, but not our not our jewel. Derer more more angel.

[32:55] No zoolologist. No, I think this is it for now. Right. This one smuggler share is not not that amazing. Yeah, I think this is it for now. We have 54. We are pretty close to completing the deck. Of course, we need some removals and board wipes, right? We need everyone. Everyone needs that. So, uh I I'll just Yeah, I'll just do it manually. Chaos path.

[33:41] Do we play paths? Exile swords flasher. Boros. Do we defer protection? We're going all in. We are We are going bracket four with this. Uh it's the best removal path. I still think it's Yeah, I think still think path and swords are worth it. That was a bad idea. That was not a good idea. Path two. Sorry. Path to exile. Don't be Really? Are you seriously? No way. This is No way this is true.

[34:21] A path to E. Oh my gosh. There you go. Thank you. Swords to plow shares. I swear. Okay, good. Generous gift. Maybe we want some slow blink just to protect our board. I was just thinking maybe what's that card called? Eerie interlude. Yeah, cuz the only our only weakness here is board wipe, right? We are pretty protected from most spot rules, but fast blink you you don't Yeah, you don't dodge word wipes.

[35:10] So, what's the other one called? Ghost. Ghost way, I think. Ghost way. Okay, let's play two of these. And then board wipes. What are the best Farewell. Farewell is a game changer, but we're going deep. And also I think the best one next to variable is the one the instant speed one called called called with escalate. Can't remember but we'll find it. Escalate. Yeah, we're just building this Escalate.

[35:58] Whoops. It is not escalate. It's spree. Sorry. Tip timeline instant destroy text spree and destroy. That should give us the destroy final final showdown. Yes, it's called final showdown. And what are there any creature board like destroy? Oh, I'm going to give it a all because if there is this is nuts.

[36:41] Oh. Oh, never mind. It's an or there's one that's similar color. Give me the right colors and hack awakening. There you go. But this one does not work with blink. So there you go. Some blast angel. Yes. This is sweet. I think that's it. Magnus does not work with blink. It works with slow blink. So no mojin doesn't work. But some blast is sweet.

[37:22] Okay. I'm very happy about finding sunlast. Sunblast. Just last minute checking is there any other synergy. We're at 64 cards, so we have room for maybe one or two more cards. Treasure. Treasure synergy. No. Lifelink. Gain life synergy. We We'll do a quick check. Whenever you gain life because we can gain life pretty consistently with today. We gain life. Oh, well of lost dreams.

[38:02] Is that playing? Might be not this. Not this. this. Whenever you gain life. Whenever you gain life. Well of lost dreams. So you blink something on your main face. You attack. you pay a lot of to. It's really mana intensive, but late game might just get you back into the game. It's Is it better than Mind's Eye? Is it better than Minds? I think it's better. And there's some synergy. So, I'm going to We'll have to test this one. I'll have to test. But I think that's it for life gang synergy.

[38:45] No game. D of hope gain gain draw our card draw a card whenever you gain life is not good enough yeah exemplar of light whenever you gain life put no it's too slow I think because we're not we're not even guaranteed one liking a turn whenever you gain life put that many counters on it's decent boom is that was two No. Uh, let me double check. Dawn of hope. What is What's the other ability? H. Create a one- one white creature.

[39:28] It's like a mana sync. It's like a mana but to use it, you have to basically sacrifice it, attack, and then pay two. I don't think it's good enough. Okay, last. We probably need more removals like whatever cards we we eventually find to be not pulling the weight, we will switch what switch for more interaction. But for now, we'll just make sure to think of let's think of are there any lands that can work with today aside from homework path link and haste lands that work with today?

[40:09] High market of because some creatures we just want to kill. High mark. We are 2 hours 30 minutes into the video. I'm holding up. Okay. My voice is hurting a little bit but like my voice was hurting and then now it's not hurting anymore. I'm not sure. This can't be good. But but we are dedicated. Hi market and uh something something Okay. No, no. Advanced search. It's called something.

[40:50] Mine field. Cory. Cororey. Cory. There you go. Lazep quy. Uh, sack creature. Yeah. What else can we sack creature with? I'm going to just search for all lens that interact with creature. Can't be too many, right? Can't be too many. Land creature boros go path. No, no, no, no. Saga searches for no cavern souls.

[41:31] No. Sure, we can play some utility but do we play maze of is that good? It's not access tunnel. Nope. Draw a card. Make a token. We do want some mana sinks just because we are playing with a lot of mana open, right? because we plot a creature down and then we hold mana and sometimes often times we only need one creature on the field to to control the game. We need one creature like for examp mana and play reactively.

[42:12] Speaking of playing reactively, do we have enough ways to finish the game? Maybe we need another maybe another finisher or something. This molten primordial is okay, but okay, we'll look at lens first. Oh, this is a great card. Yeah, this is excellent. You can blink it. Oh, your Nope. My moria man. Sure. Yeah, we're not going to do Oh, tail talon gates. You know what? This goes into an earlier deck. So, it goes into what's his name?

[42:55] The landfall the the the the amulet blow commander minstrol. Yes, because you can keep using it, reusing it over and over. Okay. Sh. Yeah. Protection spell is good. Haven arcane. Do we want plus two vigilance? Nope. Do we want to make tokens? Yes, we Okay. Mut vault. No, I think that's it for lands. Think that's it. Okay. And now we need wind condition.

[43:37] What's a Boro's wind condition? I guess insurrection. And there's synergy with it. So I guess we play insurrection. insurrection. No. And also just one more. What's that one that double strike and goes everything? That card is good, too. We're just messing with combat here. Double strike go. Spectacular showdown. Yes. Yeah. And now we are at 74 cards, but it's mostly lands that we're missing.

[44:20] Yeah, this deck is again, I'm really excited for this. I might actually build this, but we have to move on to the next legendary. We are 2 hours and 36 minutes in. Okay, so as you can see, after some brainstorming, now we have a deck that uses sedane and blink spells to shut down combat for your opponents. It will be really difficult to attack into this setup when your opponents know that you have 10 to 15 blink spells in your deck. And at the same time, we hold the fort and slowly take over the game with other ETB creatures. And this deck again sounds like a blast to play. I will actually build it and test it. And right now, there's a tentative list on the bottom of all the decks I brainstormed in the descriptions, but later if enough people are interested, I might do a an updated deck tech and along with a deck list for this.

[45:10] So yeah, please like and subscribe and let me know what kind of content you like. I'm trying lots of different things and yeah, just let me know what you look forward to seeing more in the future. Thanks.
