# My Favourite Budget Deck Took 10 Minutes to Design
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/l_7gjqlUqdM
date: 2025-06-19 | views: 1,565 | likes: 50 | comments: 15 | length: 6:07 | words: 938 | wpm: 154.2

[0:00] My favorite budget deck list was built in under 10 minutes and it changed how I built decks forever. It started with me thinking about how metal rocks are powerful. Hot take. I know. I was a bit of a hipster. So, I wanted to build a deck filled with metal rocks. But the problem was that you're playing really, really high risk and your deck, especially your commander, has to be high reward. It needs to be able to recoup all that card advantage lost, but anything following that play pattern is just way too fast and powerful. So, the idea was set aside until Hour of Devastation brought us this card, Unesh, Sphinx, Sovereign. This is the answer I was waiting for. It will take advantage of all the mana rocks and draw us cards, but can't do anything too broken because, well, we are stuck with sphinxes.

[0:44] Now that we have a commander, this is when the timer starts. The main reason this was quick was because I decided that metal rocks, lands, and sphinxes were all I wanted in this deck. It just felt right. There's just a certain appeal to simple and effective decks. And we got the simple part down. For the deck to be effective, I needed to figure out the right ratio. And since I never built anything even remotely close to this, I just picked the most balanced approach to test and adjust later. 33 lands, 33 rocks, and 33 Let's go. Okay, let's begin. Search skyfall for sphinxes, sphines, monol, and uh Sphinx.

[1:30] All righty. And uh let's let's have a budget restriction, right? Let's not go over $10. Seems good. Go rank by EDH. Let's pick pretty much the best ones. Second Sun. Beautiful. Uh we don't do artifacts. Don't know. Good. Uh we don't need card draw. Good, good, excellent. Dream eater. Sphinx of Gatun. Big dom. Sure. Oh, this one is a win condition. We don't have spells, but we can recur our mana rocks, I guess. Seems good. Good. Excellent.

[2:10] Low cost is always good. Three more. Sure. Riddle keeper. This guy is nice. Her derp. I'm a swings. We are at 34. Time for mana rocks. Yeah, once again we keep the budget restriction and uh artifact add. I'm pretty sure we have to prioritize the low cost ones. So we start with let's say two mana value. Yes rank by EDH wreck. Nice. Nice. Sure. Yeah, this is good. Stark comp is good. Let's go to three Whoops.

[2:51] I adh rank go plus one plus one seems good. Two mana seems good. We do need this effect because we are going to mail ourselves with what three or four mini faces a turn. So this seems really good. Plus one to our swings. Sure. Oh, we should play the bobbleheads. How many bobbleheads are there? Five. Okay, bubble bobblehead time. One, two, bobblehead. Three. Bobblehead. Five. Six. Number seven. Okay, there's seven of them, I guess. Okay, we are at 63 cards. We need just how many more? Three more.

[3:31] Uh, let's look at four drops. No, we need four more, I think. Yeah, four more rocks. Four drop. Go. Go. Dynamo is good. Archive. We don't need draw. Oh, Nick's Lotus is nutty. I thought this was more expensive, but seems good. Oh, and then there's Soaring. We are at 66. Okay, let's just add one more three mana one. There was one that I liked when I saw it. Stricks Haven Stadium. Yeah, this one I like. Okay, sweet. Okay, this took a while. The mana rocks. We're at 67 cards, but we've got the easy part now.

[4:24] And we have a deck. And that was an reenactment of how the deck came together. I remember the entire process being 10 minutes because I was picking up singles at MTG Mint Cards in Hong Kong. Great store. And they were near closing time. Now, I've been playing this deck for years. I've made some changes. land for land, swings for sphinx, but the ratio of 33 33 33 was never touched. It performed well. Now, I know the deck would probably benefit from a counter spell or two or some removals, board wipes even, but there's just something about this minimalistic deck building that really appeals to me. Nowadays, we are overwhelmed with choices between the deck building templates and all the pushed utility they're releasing.

[5:09] It's difficult for even the most experienced deck builder to stay on course with the core philosophy of their deck, the reason they built it in the first place. But if we cut out all that noise and just focus on what we want to do, we do one thing well and force our opponents to deal with it. There's just a certain satisfaction in being completely transparent with others knowing exactly what you can do and will do yet still having trouble stopping you. Since Zunes, I've built other decks with a similar philosophy, a get rock ravenous ride deck with just manadors, pump spells, and protection spells, or an Evelyn the coous deck with mana rocks, protection spells, and clones. Now, this is a topic I wish to expand upon in the future.

[5:49] And if you're still here, I'd love to hear your thoughts. Are you interested? Do you see the appeal in this kind of deck building? Do you have decks that follow this philosophy? If you love this content, subscribe for more. And if you don't, uh, subscribe as well and constantly remind me of how much you hate it.
