# When EDHREC Suggests Bad Cards
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/LJrlgLlut3Q
date: 2025-06-10 | views: 2,682 | likes: 84 | comments: 26 | length: 8:56 | words: 1,578 | wpm: 177.0

[0:00] Around a week ago, this brilliant individual made a comment under my video asking for me to find ineffective suggestions by EDH. And I thought it was an excellent idea, but I wasn't sure if I'd be able to find enough good examples for an entire video. After all, decks on EDH Wreck, especially those top commanders, are checked by thousands of people every day. There's no way garbage can stick around for long. Guess we're making the video. Hello everyone, this is Next Level Commander and today we are going over examples of EDHR recommending truly terrible cards for some of the most popular commanders.

[0:42] Some of them are overhyped, some are outdated, and the last two don't even work. And this isn't just a memes list, but rather I'd like to look a little deeper into the nuances of card evaluation. Let's go. First card comes from the second most popular commander of all time, the Dragon. And this is a classic example when talking about card evaluation, Crucible of Fire. It is in over 8,000 decks and at least five other YouTube videos talking about why it's not good. Dragons you control get plus three plus three. Now, the easiest way to see the misleading part of this card is imagining it just being an enchantment that gives plus three to everything to all your creatures. That would be a great card. It would see play in tons of tokens and goblins text, but likely won't get a second look from most dragon players.

[1:27] Our thoughts are blocked by the dragon specific rules text. And as soon as the block is lifted, it's not hard for us to see that crucible of fire is wind. If you have enough dragons for the pump to be meaningful, you're winning the game with or without it anyways. And if the dragon text alone isn't enough to shut off our judgment completely, seeing it on the top of the EDHC page gets it done. And this is the problem with this site. It is not that we are incapable of analyzing. It's just that that part of the brain is shut off when we browse EDHREC. I don't mind us. Reminds me of the countless number of times I drove into an obvious dead end following my GPS. Next up is a card in Calia. And the suspect here is a Chroma Angel of Wrath.

[2:09] Now, 15 years ago, this might have made sense, but nowadays a Chroma just doesn't cut it anymore with all the crazy bombs being released left and right. I mean, dropping this with Calia, congratulations. You just don someone for six when it could have been 10, 12, or six, but with 15 treasures added on. I believe that some are misled by the manacost thinking the more you cheat, the more you save. But in a Calia deck, it's actually really important to also have plans for when your commander gets removed. Rightfully, imagine paying eight mana to hard cast this in 2025. With that in mind, even a bane slayer angel is probably a better choice overall. However, saying all this, I'm neglecting one of the biggest polls of Acroma.

[2:50] It is one of the most iconic angels. Heck, even one of the most iconic creatures in the history of Magic, and people play her for that nostalgia. That is cool. I get it. But this brings up another problem with Idiot Wreck. In a format that is driven by so many different motivations besides just winning the game, it's impossible for us to know which ones are behind the card choices displayed here. And therefore, it is difficult for deck builders, especially those with less experience, to take that into consideration. At this point, I really hope EDHR doesn't send me a sponsorship offer or I'm going to look real hypocritical. Anyways, moving on to Euro. And the card here is Shadow of Immortality in over 61% of Euro decks.

[3:34] I get it. I get it. It's 15 damage when you flip it with Euro, but what's the chance of you flipping it? Oh, yeah. You can tutor for it with your game changer, vampiric tutor. So, let's take a closer look at the card that we're tutoring for with our game changer just to do that little bit of extra damage. We have a 15 mana, vanilla. And if you're at 27 life or lower, it's two mana. Wow. Two mana, 77. When you have a decent board with Euro triggering, are you sure you don't want to search for some kind of finisher? Roaming Throne, perhaps? Sure. is dealing far less damage on the trigger itself, but getting those triggers doubled in the future will close out the game faster than the shade, I promise.

[4:17] Or if you're worried about your board getting answered, how about a counter spell that also deals 10 damage. Now, let's take a look at a few more other cards that not only does decent damage, but also doesn't do close to nothing if you happen to draw them. So, as you can see, just getting that 15 damage once in a while feels good. And so does hitting your opponents for 100 damage rather than 80 with Crucible Fire. But balance and consistency will make your average game more enjoyable and effective. Next up, Giata. 66% over 13,000 players are playing this card. Youthful Valkyrie. I don't I don't know what to say, man. This is We are getting worse with every card.

[4:58] I mean, look at this card. It's a two- mana angel that gets slightly bigger every turn. That's it. Okay, let's put ourselves in the shoes of a Giata player. Now imagine we are playing kiata like we always wanted to. We are in bracket one because bracket zero doesn't exist. We draw our opening hand. Nice youthful Valkyrie. This is what low drops are for. Turn one. Turn two. Finally I can tap two mana for Kiata. Yeah, that's the play. It's okay. Next turn. Wait, but next turn we have four mana. Are we going to play this over the four drop angels?

[5:42] We may not have a four drop, you say? Yes, because this youthful Valkyrie should be a four drop. Okay, wake up. We are mono white. We are fighting uphill from turn one. And here you be playing this two mana do nothing like you have a blue sun zenith for 12 lined up. Just don't. Okay. And if you're thinking it can't get worse from here, it absolutely can. Now we're stepping into cards that don't actually work territory. Nekusar days undo. I know it's only 14%, but that's still 3,000 decks too many. This card does nothing. Yes, it's a time twister.

[6:23] Yeah, it's sick. Everyone is excited. But why are we time twistering again? Oh yeah, for the triggers, the damage, the locust tokens. Except I gotta remind you to read days undoing's reminder text if the name wasn't warning enough. Oh, and the 894 Cyrus players. I didn't forget about you guys either. You guys can't even play notion thief. That's like the one card that works with this duel. But it's okay. We are not at the bottom just yet. Next up, we have a card that's literally worse than a basic land. Juladoc Marriott landscape 2000 decks. Marriott landscape searches for two basic lands. Uh, no problem. We got wastes that share a land type.

[7:05] Oh, okay. To be fair, this is kind of fringe. It's very technical. I just learned about this a few hours ago when doing research for this video, and now I turn it around to make fun of you. Funny how life works sometimes. But yeah, cut this from your colorless text. Don't play this. And now, time for the worst EDH wreck fail that I was able to find today. a card that actively shuts down your commander. Bernard Ginger Sculptor and his academy manufacturer in 37% 3,585 decks. Bernard turns your dying creatures into food, a really powerful ability. An economy recctor tacks on a treasure and a clue, but actually it doesn't exactly tack on.

[7:49] That's where people are misled. What's not to love here is the word instead. Yes, Academy director creates a new food token and overrides Bernard's ability. So, it's just food. I guess if you want to exchange your Mandra or triplicate Titan for a clue and a treasure token, it's cool, but I'm pretty sure you don't. This card literally shuts down your commander, which I assume your entire deck is built around, so please take it out. Do not play Academy Manufacturer. And that wraps it up. I realize I've been mentioning ED track a lot lately. I'm not a hater, I promise. I also enjoy taking a list and playing it immediately, especially for the tribal decks. But still, these memew worthy errors are decent reminders for us and myself to just turn on our brains just a little when handed card suggestions and deck lists by EDHR.

[8:39] Do a little bit of system two thinking between your Cheetos and Mountain Dew sips. It will make us better deck builders. I promise. So yeah, thank you for watching. Please like, subscribe, and comment. Let me know what you want to see in the future. That's all. I'll see you in the next video.
