# This Gitrog Deck is NOTHING Like What You've Seen Before | Commander-Centric Deck Tech
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/LwKQkssg8Y8
date: 2026-04-03 | views: 11,113 | likes: 437 | comments: 70 | length: 8:57 | words: 1,794 | wpm: 200.7
tags: MTG, EDH, Commander, GITROG, ELVES, COMMANDER-CENTRIC, DECK, Magic the Gathering

[0:00] Ooh, hello there. I'm an elf and I'm here for a war party. Yeah, yeah, I got invited, man. Right here, see? They're welcoming me, these humans. Who invited these Pokémon? Man, it's getting diverse over here. But yes, I've been to plenty of these. It's always a good time. We make some mana, so we do some tapping, and we send in some big mascot to finish the job. Ooh, I can already see the mascot looking a little different up close. I heard this time some lucky ones even get to ride it. No way they pick me. I'm just a land lord. But they picked me. Oh well, let's go then, big boy. Who are we beating up today? Sneak and shore Dover. What's that in the sky? A bunch of pump spells.

[0:40] Wow, they really got us covered. Well then, let's go get Hold up. They're not pumping the frog? Then who are they Huh? What is YOU DOING, FROGGY? NO. &gt;&gt; THIS IS THE WORST PARTY EVER. &gt;&gt; HELLO. This is Jin with Next Level Commander. So, this recent week video has turned out to be the most popular video ever on this channel. Not too sure how to feel about this though, because it also happens to be the only deck here I didn't design by myself. Thanks, people. You've made your message loud and clear, and so has Ty. But life moves on. EDH is just a game, and social media is just background noise.

[1:25] I'm over it. Just kidding, I'm not. Life is actually the background noise, and YouTube clout is everything. This is me fighting back with my own big brain budget deck. It's actually one of my proudest creations, really. I was saving this for the 1 million sub special, but here you go, enjoying this exclusive content decades early because I am not losing this one. So, please like and subscribe. This is my one chance. Oh, and also leave a comment. Let me know if you think this deck can beat up the week snail deck. I think I got this. But why am I hyping this deck up so confidently? Well, it's because it embodies all of my deck building perks. Almost everything I enjoy in a deck can be found here. It's built entirely around the commander, Gitrog, the ravenous ride. It is ramp, card draw, and win condition all in one.

[2:05] And the deck construction is as minimalistic as can be. Really, this entire deck tech can just be summed up by a haiku. Yeah, that's it. You can literally turn off the video now, and you will know how to build the deck from scratch. No, really, try it. Take this, make a list, and see how close it is to mine. But actually, don't close the video. Play it in the background or something. Pretty, please. I need that viewer retention. But yeah, this is the entire game plan. Power out Gitrog with elves. Frog plus protection requires six mana. We should have that by turn four. And once we untap with Gitrog, we are saddling with and pumping the mana dorks. Draw more pump and protection, drop some lands, rinse and repeat until your hand looks something like this, and you realize your opponents are 15 commander damage away from lethal.

[2:52] Okay, and now you have the entire instruction manual as well. Oh, and the clickbaity thumbnail, got to address that. I actually never designed this as a budget deck, but a local budget tournament made me realize how perfect Gitrog is for that. I threw away all the chaff, swapped out cards for cheaper variants, and it came out to be $26. And that's after paying 13 cents per basic land. The deck tech today is actually for the full budget version, but the $26 variant retains, I'd say, about 70% of the power, which is pretty good for getting a 95% discount. I'll include both lists in the descriptions. Feel free to check it out, but let us begin with our full power Gitrog deck tech. Starting with mana dorks as an entry-level position and a bit of a dead-end job, if you will.

[3:32] So, we can't be too picky here. Cheap and high power are the only criteria, really, in that order. One mana really is premium for dorks, so we are pretty much playing them all. Getting one of these in the opening hand, we are already halfway to a great start. At two mana, our options really do open up, but we are still prioritizing power. Three one is nice. Conditional four four is good, too. Our graveyard does fill up pretty fast. At two power or lower though, you better bring some extra utility. Having the ability to scale is nice. It's also good to potentially tap for more than one mana. Devoted Druid is actually nutty, turning giant growths into dark rituals. Making others bigger is okay. Tapping for extra mana is also acceptable. Or if you happen to be Library of Alexandria, that's okay, too.

[4:15] I've no idea how good this is, but I do often have seven cards in hand. At three mana, the cards have to be ridiculously good, and they are. Gwena is one of the best mana dorks ever printed for creature decks. Selvala and Marwyn scale in different ways, but both have ridiculously high ceilings. Oh, and they both also do the turning pump spells into rituals thing. Spoiler alert, we have 22 pump spells. And finally, the honorary mana dorks. We have Tireless Provisioner and Nissa. These are some of the greediest cards we play in such a low-to-the-ground deck, but when you draw eight and dump five lands onto the battlefield with one of these watching, it's all worth it. So now, thanks to all your hard work, we have Gitrog down on turn four and kicking. Who wants to go for a ride? Me.

[4:55] Me. Me. Me. Saddle. Hit. And in response to the trigger, we &gt;&gt; Giant growth, Titanic growth, mutagenic growth, supernatural stamina, might of old Krosa, inner calm, outer strength, sent to vivify, become immense, take your own death, invigorate, boon of Boseiju, Tyvar's limit break. We do also have some sorcery speed ones, riskier but really freaking efficient, like Larger Than Life, Vital Burst, Rancor, Scale Up. Oh, and Scale Up also happens to be kind of an alternate finisher. Yeah, I've won games with it. And to wrap things up, we have Ronas Monument, turning all our elves into pump spells, and Wild Defiance.

[5:36] Drawing this card usually marks the pivot from gathering value to finishing the game. And finally, protection spells. Indestructible, hexproof, all that good stuff. My favorite ones are these that pull double duty, but we also have to prioritize low mana cost over anything else. Getting that first hit and the first big trigger will pretty much determine the course of our game. So, we got to make sure it happens. And that's 60 of the 63 non-land cards. What's left? Soaring. Season of Growth. And of course, Giggling Skitterspine. Yeah, card is ridiculous. I'm hoping with my videos to push it up to 1%. Let's get on it. Now, land base. Lands can be tricky with decks like this because of how mana intensive it is. Look at all these pips.

[6:16] But yeah, some of these colorless lands we just can't say no to. Like this one, which is Clinic. This is like borderline design mistake. It's able to single-handedly keep a deck like ours, an Voltron deck, alive in the mid to late game. Talent Gates of Valerium, one of the most versatile lands they've ever printed. It can be acceleration, protection, temporary removal. It does everything. Inkmoth Nexus, if you're okay with infect, is a ridiculously efficient alternative win condition. A lot of my games end with Gitrog killing one opponent while Inkmoth goes for another. Reliquary Tower does make sense in this deck because we do want more creatures, more pump, and more protection, and ideally multiples of each. So, discarding can be tough at times. Plaza of Heroes with mana open is excellent deterrent against people waiting to remove our frog.

[7:00] And yes, losing our commander can be detrimental, so Cavern of Souls and Command Beacon will help a bit with that. And finally, if we're doing brackets, this deck actually has no need for game changers, and it has none up to this point. But in my experience, it might be a bit overwhelming and even unfun for the unprepared bracket two tables. So, I feel it is best placed in bracket three. And in that case, Field of the Dead is pretty good. Ancient Tomb will help us power out frog even faster. And of course, Gaea's Cradle. Well again, none of these are really necessary or core to our game plan. It's more like win more. So, yeah, if budget is a concern, these are the first to go, I'd say. Yeah, without all these expensive lands, this list should be around $300 while maintaining most of its power.

[7:41] The remainder of our utility land slots are given to these evasion enablers and a few MDFCs. One mana dork, one protection spell, and one pump spell. And this. Got to be careful with these cuz they can't be dropped with Gitrog's ability. And there you have it, Gitrog monsters. This is what I'm going to use to face the snail stack, and I think I'll do fine as long as my grade four science teacher didn't lie to me. The deck is quite explosive. I mean, it's elves. We can get the frog out by turn four, sometimes three, and our first big turn is usually the one after. As long as we get our first refill, the deck isn't worried about most forms of disruption, not even board wipes. I mean, we do have all the protection, and unlike many other commander-centric builds, we're actually pretty safe from edict effects.

[8:23] This deck is really simple to build, but it actually is not the easiest to play. Timing, sequencing, when to pump the elf, and when to pump the frog can require some decision making, but you should get a pretty good idea after a few play through. The budget is fairly reasonable if you don't try to optimize through diminishing returns, and finally, we sit comfortable at mid to high bracket three. That's all for this video. Thank you for sticking till the end. If you enjoy the commander-centric play style or a minimalistic deck building, follow along for more videos. This will be the focus of the channel in the foreseeable I'll see you.
