# This Commander Deck Has an Identity Crisis
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/M0gv-MAFETU
date: 2025-07-08 | views: 1,037 | likes: 42 | comments: 8 | length: 4:24 | words: 949 | wpm: 215.6
tags: MTG, Commander, EDH, Decktech, MagicTheGathering

[0:00] You want a deck that all Magic players can identify with. Unpopular, pedantic, and has a bit of an identity crisis. I got you. Gatilda and Lear. You know, I've always complained about these legend designs that seem to be doing multiple barely related things at once. Barely being the key word here because once in a while you find the point of intersection between those effects and you strike gold. Persistent petitioners. Human. Slime against humanity. Spell. Boom. Human and slime. How do we get them to work together? We ram hard to drop some slimes and then petition to drop more slimes. It's sweet because slime counts exile, too. Pretty quickly, you'll be dropping game-ending threats with just a few casts. And of course, the mill is useful as well.

[0:41] We don't just mill more slimes into the grave. There are also a ton of other spells that are sweet for flashing pack from ramp to card draw. And eventually, we win with big creature synergies, plus one counter synergies, and of course, throwing stone. To start things off, we're doing 16 petitioners and 16 slimes. That's half of our non-land card slots taken. This is going to be a quick one. Once again, we're going deep here. What is the payoff? That's the question. Unfortunately, most of the no deck limit payoffs are in black and red. But of course, there's always thrming stone again. And lock it of yesterday's will quickly reduce both slime and petitioners down to one mana each. Spell weaver's helix will allow us to get some sweet sorceries over and over and over when we cast our slimes.

[1:22] Imagine this one. might as well wave your entire play group goodbye because you will never be invited back again. But it's worth it. Aside from that, we're going heavy on counters and large creature synergy. But let's go by utility. Ram Kodama of the West Tree is the standout here. Should be able to quickly get our basics onto the field. We're also playing a bunch of the traditional ramp spells as what we're doing here can be very mana inensive and we won't be keeping up with other decks without the extra mana. for card draw with a decent board. Golden Ratio should be able to refill our hand for just three mana. Bread for the hunt is made for this deck. Garuk's uprising gives us much needed evasion in the mid game onwards and every slime by then should become three mana countries. Return of the Wild Speaker and Momentous Fall are also great once we have a little bit of buildup.

[2:06] Inspiring Call is a protection spell, but never hesitate to just fire it off for three to four cards. It's already an excellent rate. Shamanic Revelation is perfect for decks that are going kind of tall and kind of wide like this one. The life gain will also be immense. Lastly, Tesar's Gambit for some draw smoothing and proliferation. For other utility, of course, doubling season does wonders here. Doubling the number of tokens and their power. Curse of the ransacked lab for reducing mana cost and with the help of that, unlocking it with four spells is very doable. Another great cost reduction spell is the Earth Crystal. It not only works well with our slimes, but also doubles the counters. seems perfect here. Heroic Intervention for just one more piece of protection. And of course, Simic ascendancy.

[2:48] Yeah, let's be honest. This is not the best card, but one win with this counts as two, maybe three depending on your house rules. I don't usually play Wonder, but we're doing a lot of self mill here and flying slimes just seems like nightmare fuel. And for board wipes, we are playing the most synergistic ones. Wave goodbye of course, but there's also Deming Verdict. Austster command is also great here because often times you can just choose to wipe large creatures and protect your entire board. Now, for lands, we are going really heavy on MDFC spells because I mean, if you draw them, they're lands, but if you mill them, you can always flash them back with your petitioners. So, that seems like great synergy. And aside from that, we have some with a generic utility lands and alchemist refuge, which is probably my favorite land of all time.

[3:28] And that's the deck. It is fairly simple and straightforward to play. Now, the list I included below is one without budget limitations, but most of that cost is in lands, and those are easily replaceable. So, this list should be buildable for a few hundred. Now, in terms of play experience, this deck will not be super fast, especially in the early game when your slimes are two twos and three threes, but that won't be for long. Pretty quickly, they will grow enough to be able to threaten your opponents and also work with our synergy pieces. And in terms of resilience, I think this deck should be fairly resilient just because if even if everything gets cleared, your graveyard, your board, the slime top deck will still be three mana 88, three mana 9. And that's the deck. I know it's pretty quick, partly thanks to having 16 copies of the same card twice.

[4:09] And also, this kind of deck tack I'm trying because, you know, it's quick, straight to the point, and you can get a decent idea for the deck in around five minutes. And please let me know if this is the kind of content you like, and like and subscribe to not miss future videos. And I'll see you.
