# WINNING With a 90$ Deck in Bracket 4
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/nJzVxENgi80
date: 2026-05-26 | views: 4,330 | likes: 158 | comments: 33 | length: 8:03 | words: 1,745 | wpm: 217.0
tags: edh, mtg, commander, Bracket 4, mono blue, Magic the Gathering

[0:00] Safiya clapped her hands and 20 flying men appeared at her side, each well-trained in the art of combat. Now, ever since I was little, I wanted to be Safiya. Unfortunately, Magic the Gathering designers don't understand balancing. Well-trained in the art of combat, one, one. Like, come on, this blade alone should be a two-one. And they're just awful in any format, not even pickable in draft. But today, we are dusting them off with a hidden gem of a commander, $90, 30 flying men, and a the dream. We're taking them all the way to bracket four. Now, what gives me the courage, you ask? It's none other than the very important character from the Avatar series, and one of the top 2,000 crap, top 3,000 commanders, the blue spirit.

[0:43] So, here's the deal with the blue spirit. We are able to flash in a flyer every turn and draw up to four cards per round. As soon as we untap with the blue spirit, we're mostly operating at instant speed. We swarm the board and annoy our opponents to death, basically. So, why don't we meet our flying men? Cloud Pirates, flying. Zephyr Sprite, flying. Cloud Sprite, flying with downside. Okay, but please don't leave. A few of these here are actually worth mentioning. Our main man, of course, from the Arabian Nights set, but aside from that, the best one here is probably Siren Stormtamer. It's a flyer, but also protection for our commander. Doesn't get much better than that. Alongside Stormtamer, we have Flutterwing Nuisance. Seeing one of these in the opening hand and we're in for a good game.

[1:24] And quite a distance behind is these with their menacing abilities, which can be relevant. The Spectral Sailor and the others with flash are also particularly good as they can bypass the one per turn limit on the blue spirit. Also, we have a bit of an impostor here in Signal Pest. It's close enough to a flyer, but also serves as an anthem for the entire team. Probably worth a slot. The rest of these have, um, cool art, I guess. Also, after some success with the deck, I decided to swap out a random one-one for a foil version of this card. Yeah, I heard this card is a sign of respect in the Magic community. So, if people lose to it, they're not as salty, which is nice. We are all about respect over here. We do need some ramp as a four-drop commander that doesn't do anything on its own is a bit slow.

[2:05] Getting it out with some mana to spare would be ideal. But yeah, as a deck with tunnel vision focus and not too many backup plans, we have to go fast. Aside from the most efficient ones within our budget, we're also playing these creatures. They pull double duty. Yeah, let's be honest, the average card quality here is not amazing, so we're pretty dependent on the commander, but luckily there's a bunch of backup options. Starting with Coastal Piracy, but they've made a ton of upgrades and some of them are pretty excellent. I mean, this cat, for example, is just ridiculously pushed. Like, during combat, we can flash it in to draw a card already and then draw more once we hit. The ship is also pretty sweet. A Reconnaissance Mission, the cycling is sweet, but we're probably never going to cycle it. I've done it once, I think, to dig for a board wipe that I I didn't have in the deck.

[2:47] Oh, and there's these two. They're not really upgrades, but they do some pretty interesting stuff, so we put them in. And now look at us. We have a bunch of one-ones, which will bring us cards, more mana, more cards, more one-ones. Now, poking with flying men is definitely annoying, but it's not going to win us games. So, we do need a few win conditions. The best one here is Shadow Puppeteers. Flashing this in before your turn comes, you get two fairies, and we get to attack with a bunch of four-fours once we untap. Gravitational Shift is almost tailor-made for this deck. All of our flyers are three-ones and will face less pressure on the ground. And there's of course Strixhaven Stadium. We can trigger that win condition fairly consistently and killing with a game of Quidditch is just beyond satisfying.

[3:28] And we're running out. Blue is just awful at winning with creatures, so we have to be a bit creative. Now, Kaito here doesn't win us the game directly, but I mean, it gives enough value to warrant the three mana cost. But there's a solid chance also that we'll be able to ult immediately after dropping him. And that's a crazy emblem. We get a swarm of two-ones every turn for the remainder of the game. I mean, we can definitely still lose from that position if we're challenging bracket four, but it sounds like a good time either way. And finally, the most exciting card in the deck and a lot of my decks nowadays, Mirror Form. Yeah, all my flying men are now Hullbreaker Horror, Ancient Copper Dragon, Terror of the Peaks, Yosei, Kokusho. Hitting the jackpot with this card is one thing I look forward to every game.

[4:11] These, along with some small pump here and there, will help us close the games. And we do want some flash enablers, but not too many. The High Faerie Trickster is great because it's also a decent flyer, can help us poke people to death, and also Teferi. Not only does he give our creatures flash, but also blocks our opponents from interacting with us. So, when we're ready to win, dropping a Teferi on the end of turn before we untap can make sure we get there. And finally, some of the cheapest counter spells within our budget. We don't have any other interaction otherwise, so these counter spells will help us protect our board while in a pinch deal with opponents' win conditions and crap like Elesh Norn. We're keeping the land simple. The only one worth mentioning is Horizon of Progress. There will be times when we're flooded and unable to keep the pressure up.

[4:54] Horizon will help us set up for future turns. Oh, and I almost forgot to mention one of my favorite inclusions in Aether Vial. Is the card amazing? No, but it works in the deck. And there's just a certain satisfaction of taking, you know, legacy eternal staples and making them work in EDH. It almost feels like a crossover. Now, this deck can be a bit tricky to play. Imagine an opening hand like this. Do you drop the one drops or not? The answer usually is no, unless you open or you top deck something like a Coastal Piracy. Then you can drop them, but otherwise I would wait for the blue spirit to drop first. So, ideally in your opening hand you want some ramp to get our commander out first before we begin swarming the board. Unless these one drops come with a bit more value, like for example, Faerie Seer is amazing.

[5:37] I would always drop this early. Even stuff like Silver Raven and Spyglass Siren, these are okay to drop. But the rest of the the drops that don't do anything, there's no need to curve out. You have a bunch of one drops. You will be able to drop them. And once we have the blue spirit out, we drop as many cards as we can, hopefully doubling up and tripling up with these coastal piracy effects. The deck is fairly explosive and can win games with a good hand on turn five, turn six. It's nothing broken, but it's very consistent. You almost never have a terrible start. And the deck is not as much of a glass cannon as it might seem to be. We are aggressive, but we don't completely lose relevance by the mid or late game because a bunch of evasive fliers can always get in.

[6:18] And with our win conditions, we can always pose a threat and we can always rebuild after a board wipe because we do have a lot of cards. The commander is a huge target, but we do have a ton of backup effects like we mentioned, so we're not exactly all in commander centric. The deck does take some practice to play, but once you understand the sequencing, you understand how the deck works, it's fairly straightforward. Now, the list I covered is $90, but if you play the deck and you enjoy it enough, you can definitely do some upgrades. No, not the flying men, those are perfect and beautiful. where we can splurge some money and improve is our counter spells. Right, we don't have any game changers, so might as well use those slots on, you know, the fierce guardianship, the force of wills. Another slightly more expensive card I want to try is the Eldrazi Monument because it's protecting our board while pumping it.

[7:02] That seems decent. And with the budget, we can upgrade our land base a little bit. You know, it's just more versatility with stuff like winding canyons, Otawara, and of course Nykthos can generate a lot of But for the most part, these upgrades are pretty marginal. I don't think they're core to our game plan. So, I do think this deck idea is better off as a budget list. And the money you save, you can spend on accessories. And speaking of that, recently I got sponsored by a brand called Kakapopo TCG and they make everything. I actually bought some of their products a while back, but recently they sent me some sample products. And this one here is one of my favorites. It's just simple, elegant, and it just fits really well with the overall vibe of magic.

[7:43] Unfortunately, I don't have an angel deck, but if you do, this is perfect for you. And this is their kaiju series with all kinds of different designs. And the price is super reasonable for the quality we're getting here. So, yeah, check out their site, and if you do, use my discount code levels, all caps, for 5% off. This is Jin with Next Level Commander, and I'll see you in my next video.
