# Every Playgroup NEEDS a Yume (Part 2)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/NqdseGcEkcc
date: 2026-09-10 | views: 18,813 | likes: 409 | comments: 231 | length: 14:12 | words: 3,286 | wpm: 232.0
chapters: 0:00 Very Hinged; 1:10 Hinged; 3:57 Mostly Hinged; 9:25 Unhinged; 11:52 OMG
tags: MTG, Commander, Group Hug, YUME, EDH, Magic the Gathering, Mystery Commander

[0:00] One video per deck, no more unhealthy obsessions. Ugu was peak, we are not topping that. Or so I thought. Past few days I caught myself daydreaming at work, canceling arrangements to playtest, and staying up late replying to YouTube comments. I even shopped for all kinds of props, all for this one deck. And I don't even feel bad about it. I mean, based on my experience so far and your reactions, we really did stumble onto something special this time. Where Ugu had hundreds of possibilities, Yu-mi has infinite. So today we are going to dive a bit deeper into the deck, talk about some of the card choices that were suggested. I made some pretty major changes since the last video, thanks to playtesting. Also, there are some hilarious suggestions.

[0:42] Yeah, I'm giddy here just thinking about them. We'll start fairly based, relatively speaking, and we will get more and more unhinged as the video goes on. And there's some pretty wild stuff. We're getting into trade wars, franchising. We'll start with the more general questions and deck tech stuff though, so you can choose to bail whenever if you feel like it's getting too much. But firstly, the most important. People say I'm pronouncing Yu-mi wrong, but I'm not. I mean, Yu-mi is my commander, how can I pronounce the name of my commander wrong? It's pronounced Yu-mi. Yeah. I I've always said Yu-mi. Yeah. Mhm. Next up, people are bringing up how similar this deck is to the otter from the game Root. I did some research and it's amazing. Yeah.

[1:22] I I honestly, I had no idea before, but that's what it is. It's freaking adorable. And also, I just want to mention how crazy supportive people are in the comments. Like, people are genuinely excited about this. And sure, people are generally pretty nice, but really, this is nothing like what I've seen before. And the thing is, yes, this deck sounds awesome, but with this I feel more driven to make sure that this deck doesn't just sound good, but actually works for those who end up spending the time and money to put this together. And that's what this video is going to do, at least in the first half. First of all, on the macro level, there is some concern that this deck will not work. Partially because Yu-mi is not very pushed compared to a lot of the other commanders. She's mono white, the ability says once a turn, and actually when I first built the deck, I completely missed the on your turn part, and that's a huge nerf.

[2:05] I was actually so disappointed, almost gave up on the deck then and there, and I probably would have with any other commander, but Yume is just so different. The way we're playing with the deck, like with our hands revealed the entire time, means that the entire table is, at least in theory, capable of thoroughly evaluating how strong we are at any point, and that will dictate whether they want to work with us or burn down the shop. Yes, this is an inherent part of multiplayer, but never to this extent. Yume is self-balancing. Just imagine this version of Yume with this hand. Would you make any deals or buy anything? Probably not. So, it's entirely possible that in a group with decent threat evaluation, that Yume Pro Max over here has the same win rate as Yume. Now, this understanding will come up a lot in our game plan and card evaluation.

[2:47] People have also been concerned about our win condition. How do we win the game? Well, eventually we have to close shop and turn on one opponent. It being just one opponent depends a lot on how we manage the game. We have to try to navigate the game state so that we are never the biggest threat, not now and not in the foreseeable future. This can be difficult and can lead to some truly bizarre plays. For example, when an opponent raised concern about a fair well in my hand, I reminded him that he has the option to just buy it and use it to exile only graveyards. We want our opponents to focus on killing other scarier threats while thinking, often times correctly, that they have a 60% chance against us, if not more. And in the end, we are going to come out and snatch victory from their jaws four times out of 10.

[3:27] Yeah, that's right. What did you expect? A lot of the charm of this deck comes from the complete transparency. You don't want a high win rate with this deck. In fact, ideally, you want it to be just below 25%, and when it is, bring a spreadsheet, bring a calculator, and make sure everyone knows about it. Now, I know this sounds very idealistic and is probably not that easy to do, but what's important is that we have this game plan in mind so that we can get closer and closer to it by adjusting how we play and our card choices. And the best part is the process is a blast. Okay, enough of this abstract philosophical crap. Let's move on to some specific examples. Starting simple, play testing has shown me that we need more white mana sources. Yeah, because when we sell something, the colorless cost is partly covered, so that we can play multiple spells a turn, and that means we need often times four white mana, sometimes even five, because a lot of these spells are pretty color intensive.

[4:15] So, I have to swap some of my colorless utility lands for white ones. And next up, I had to overhaul the security team. I started off with a bunch of spot removals, because during that period I played against a lot of Voltron decks and decks with lighter board presence, and I guess I was in that mental space. But in further play testing, I played against more of those green decks who build and continue to develop a significant board state. And to those players, I am scary. Like they would, you know, buy things, play normally, but but the first chance they get, they turn on me and try to go for the kill. And in retrospect, that's pretty obvious, because I'm holding two board wipes in my hand, and other players, as far as they're concerned, might have zero. But these board wipes really are pretty important to our game plan, and is one of white's biggest strengths. So, instead of single target removals and these one-sided board wipes, I'm now playing more instant-speed ones.

[5:00] At first, I skipped them because I can only do business on my turn, and these can kill you mate. But I think the versatility more than makes up for it. Because remember, not everything's for sale. When we reveal our hands, we separate what is for sale and what isn't. Now, these board wipes can be either, depending on the situation. With these in hand, our opponents have to think twice about attacking us, because they will risk losing their board. And this is also why I'm deciding not to play cards like Everybody Lives. I even cut to Teferi's Protection, because we want there to be consequences. And these protection spells are far less powerful when it's not a surprise. And for the remaining board wipes, I want them to be at least modal, with some room for negotiation. But another problem is, again, Yuumi might die from these. And also, Yuumi can just die from collateral damage. People don't usually target her, but when it happens, it's very awkward, cuz then I need one turn to cast Yuumi, and we can't open shot until the next turn.

[5:45] So, with that experience, I decided to also add in some flash enablers, most notably Winding Canyons and Purphoros, God of the Forge and yeah, it may seem narrow, but the way it changes how you play Yuumee is completely worth it. Also, we do have a few other humans, so that could be relevant. But with all that said, it doesn't change the fact that when we have two or even three board wipes in our hand, we can feel pretty oppressive and being oppressive is the last thing you want to do. So, once again, be creative with how you use the board wipes. Not every board wipe has to be destroying everything. We can cast these planeswalkers to make tokens. We can use Final Showdown as a protection spell. Everything is negotiable. To take this even further, I decided to include a Scroll Rack along with more shuffle effects. This way we can actually send away cards that people find threatening.

[6:27] Things are so much easier when people know that you are sincere about keeping a healthy relationship until the last possible moment. Okay, let's now talk about a few other options that I'm not taking. The first one being stacks cards. The idea is that you stacks your opponents so they can't play spells, so they're forced to buy your goods. Now, that sounds good in theory, but again, it will be oppressive. And I'm not talking about this for the sake of my playgroup's experience. I don't care about that. But being oppressive and having too much control on the game is like the opposite of what we want to do here. And it doesn't take much for people to realize that they can just burn down the shop altogether and be done with this nonsense. Another one of the most common suggestions is Wedding Ring. Yeah, it seems super flavorful. I'm afraid to play it.

[7:07] I have yet to test it, but the reason is because like I mentioned in the other video, I don't want continuous group hug effects because imagine the opponent I married to is ahead in the game and now I'm in a dilemma cuz I want to draw cards to be able to keep up, but then when I draw cards, I'm further enabling them. So, I'm still being very careful with these. And in the comment section, there are some pretty amazing card choice suggestions and a lot of them I've taken. And here I will explain my thought process behind some of them. Well, first of all, like I said earlier, I've been trying the kind of products I carry. I don't want them to be just board wipes and removals. Giacomoseia mentioned the Sentry. Yeah, this is exactly what I want. Similarly, Teo, mentioned by Adam Tom, is another kind of unique product with such a special effect that we can add to our inventory.

[7:50] To that, the Legend of Young Chen and Vault 13. They don't do anything too special, but just the combined utility among the chapters make them excellent value-filled packages. Another sweet call is Victory Chimes. Well, at first, I did consider this card, but Vush Pow was the one who pointed out that I can literally just give a mana to my opponent to help them buy my product. You know, if the economy gets rough. And also just the political implications, give me one mana now, I'll give you one on your turn. Another card I decided to add myself was Reverse the Sands. Yeah, with all the implications of this card, I'm not sure if it's going to help or hurt me more, but either way, it's going to be glorious. Okay, now moving on to cards that not only do work, but also kind of change how we play. The first one is Lauren.

[8:32] Yes, it's a decent removal, but the tap ability gives our store the option to do promotions in the future. Yeah, one card isn't enough of an incentive, we can do a bundle deal. Excellent idea. Thanks, Phil. So, as you can see, we are moving from individual card choices to also tweaking how we play the deck. Just a quick reminder, the way I'm doing it now is whenever Yumaz is on the battlefield, I reveal my hand to everyone, and I will separate what is for sale and what isn't. People can take a look and make an offer. I will try to always take an offer, and when there are multiples, I will choose based on several factors like the board state or how much they're willing to pay. Whenever a deal is made, I press a special button and a message plays. And yeah, that's it for the essential aspects of running this deck. I try to keep it as simple and as neutral as possible, but I also can't play just like an NPC without any judgment because in that way, the person with the most mana, who is likely already ahead, will just snowball thanks to our help.

[9:20] We we try to be fair to everyone, but we have to use some of our own judgment. With that said, once your group becomes more familiar and accepting of your play style, we can add more rules. If you're familiar with the game Avalon, think of it like this. When I teach new players to play, it's always just good and evil, but once they become more familiar with the rules and game and the dynamics, we introduce Merlin. And after that, all the other characters. We gradually increase the complexity. And in this case, something we can do is preorders. Yeah, why not? I mean, you can have your hand always revealed, and you only cast Yume when someone commits to buying something. Sometimes early game people are busy developing their own board, so they have no extra mana. This way, we won't risk opening up, paying for all the overhead, and not make any sales. At least we're making one. And usually one leads to another.

[10:01] And also, Dustinggu mentioned a couple of special cards for VIP customers only. Now, I understand this as kind of like a membership club. If you spend enough, you get access to special goods like life swapping. Emerald cool? Yeah, just have a threshold like spending, you know, eight mana on buying things lifetime, and you get access. You can bring these little cards to hand out. That would be amazing. Also, another sweet interpretation of this is taking requests before the game. Like, if you're a platinum customer, yeah, why not? What card do you want? I will add it to the deck. Like, the Goblin deck wants a Gauntlet of Might? Yeah, I can do that. The Elf deck wants an Armageddon? Well, all I can say is the customer is always right. That's pretty awesome. You can just bring a sideboard of random utility cards and symmetrical effects for people to choose from.

[10:44] But Gato also pointed out, yeah, while you can have VIP customers, there should also be a blacklist. And that brings up my favorite part, tariffs. Yeah, get on our bad side and everything is going to cost you more. I once imposed a Trinisphere tariff on my friend Jared. Everything he buys will cost a minimum of three mana. Even if the card didn't cost that much, he had to tap three to buy anything. He did not win that game. Neither did I, because he decided to turn the trade war into an actual war. But I'm sure he learned his lesson. An alternative to that is having fixed prices for everything and everyone. Literally, just be a shop. Now, the downsides, there are many downsides like I mentioned earlier, you might help the winner. And also, there's not much flexibility. You can't play favoritism, and you can't even do trade wars anymore.

[11:24] But the upside is you can bring a sticker gun to every game, and just sticker everything. Yeah, and once you're bored of that, you can start doing discounts. Sounds like fun. And with that, you can use Fail Winx's amazing suggestion. Just turn the deck into an NPC. Yeah, whenever you have three players, use it as the fourth player. I'm not sure how well that works. Like you're going to have to have a set of rules dictating who can buy things and when. And again, to avoid the king-making situation. But that sounds like something fun to figure out. And finally, my favorite suggestion. I was actually annoyed that I didn't come up with this myself. And that is Jonathan's Assault Suit. There's actually so much you can do with this because now you're adding another layer to selling creatures. Cuz not only can your opponents buy the ETB ability, if they pay enough, you can send the creature over to help them attack.

[12:10] But that's not the fun part. The truly unhinged play is sending Yumi around. Now, remember the horrors of seeing a Nurse Joy in every Pokémon Center and the same shopkeeper in every Poké Mart? Yumi is doing that. We are franchising. You want to open a shop, too? Oh, just sign these papers and get ready to welcome your first customer, which is probably me. Or we can even have a bank, like some kind of mana charge system. Help me pay for Assault Suit on my turn, and when I give you Yumi, I will repay three mana, maybe even with interest. And now that we're going the ways of capitalism and conglomerates, why not just go all the way? Let's get real money involved. My friend Deacon brought up the possibility of just dumping your trade binder, the white section of course, into Yumi. And your opponents can just pay for the cards with money.

[12:50] And one mana of course for the assist trigger. But yeah, then they get the card for the game and also afterwards. I'm sure people will be a little more incentivized to purchase cards if they can win them the EDH game they're currently playing in. And this is crazy work. Yeah, the possibilities are actually endless. I love this. And everything I'm saying here is just tip of the iceberg. There's so much for you to explore with your playgroup. I'm half hoping that I won't have to make a third video about this, but I also kind of want to because that would mean I get even more amazing suggestions for this deck. And honestly, these are so fun to read. So please keep it up and I will keep the giveaway going. I'm going to keep this very simple. Giveaway rules are in the descriptions. We are giving away awesome Kakapopo products, but if you don't want to wait or rely on random chance, you can visit their site, check out what they have, and use my discount code.

[13:36] But more importantly, the winners from my Nephalem video. We have Lord Ocram trying to create an infinite loop here. And Narwhal Repellent who suggested Dragonfire Blade. Please make a comment or see below for my contact information. Oh, also, a few of the previous winners haven't contacted me yet. Now, there's no rush. I'm here for the foreseeable future. But if you see this, I have a full list of winners down below in the descriptions. Check if you are there. And that's it for this video. Thank you for joining me on this journey. I don't think this is the end. I will continue to test you may and yeah, whatever I come up with, I will keep you updated, and I hope you can do the same because this is awesome. Thank you. See you.
