# I Waited FIFTEEN Years for an Interesting Selesnya Commander
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/NQtp203imxo
date: 2026-09-01 | views: 25,759 | likes: 412 | comments: 232 | length: 11:08 | words: 2,328 | wpm: 209.3
tags: Mystery Boosters, MTG, EDH, Commander, ETB, Magic the Gathering

[0:00] Hello everyone. How are you doing? This is Jin with next level commander and today we have a deck that builds towards an end game that is perpetual. That it just doesn't run out of gas. And somehow it's Selesnya. Now I think in my 15 years of playing commander, I've never built a Selesnya deck. It really is the most boring color combination. I don't think this is a hot take. Now recently there's been a few kind of interesting ones, but not interesting enough for me to actually build and try them. Now that is until the mystery boosters. They made Elda is both powerful and really fun to play. Not sure about your opponents though cuz playing against this deck will feel like hitting a pillow while being stuck in quicksand. Yeah, that sums it up.

[0:40] And as always we are building our core game plan around Elda. Now people do rightly point out that I do sometimes spend way too many card slots dedicated to the core game plan and not leaving enough room for the creative stuff, you know, battlecruisers and even pet cards. So today this deck is different. The core engine is just six creature cards and four tutors to search for them. And that's it. For the rest of the deck you can play pretty much whatever creature package you want and it will work. And the core engine is Whitemane Lion and friends. How the lion works is when it enters it bounces something. It can also bounce itself back to your hand. And that means with Elda it can constantly recycle another creature and itself while leaving a token behind. Unfortunately, Whitemane Lion is actually unique in what it does in all of magic.

[1:23] Fortunately though, it is pretty difficult to kill especially when combined with all these backup plans. Now these include the Rescuer Chwinga, Ambrosia Whiteheart, Sun Pearl Kirin, and Jeskai Barricade. Now these ones unfortunately only bounce another permanent or creature, so they can't recycle themselves. That's the biggest weakness. So they have to be used in conjunction with each other. With Elda out and two of these in hand, we can cast a Sun Pearl Kirin, demonstrate it. The token enters first which will recycle something for us and then the original Kirin enters which will bounce either the token or a recycle another creature. And now if we have say Jeskai Barricade and Hand, we can have these two cards constantly recycle each other and at the same time reuse a lot of our ETB effects.

[2:04] And also, just to add one more to the list, Stonecloaker. This is a Whitemane Lion with some extra perks, but the one extra cost can be pretty expensive. It's much better with cost reducers, though. So, yeah, this is the squad. With this setup, we can constantly bounce. They can protect each other. They can protect Elda. And also, they trigger cast, ETB, and all kinds of other abilities. And this is what we're building around. And because Elda's ability says each turn, I decided to go with creatures that have flash. And the choices are slightly limited, but we do get to cover up most of the utilities. We are a bit thin in some areas, but we do get to reuse our cards, so it's not the worst. For removals, we do have the War Fox Bodyguard, Angel of Dire Hour, and Solitude.

[2:45] Now, with these, I have to be careful because when I demonstrate them, they can easily be used against us. So, you're going to need some table talk, and if that doesn't work out, you might just not want to demonstrate. There are a few cards that can bypass this, though, like Now, this, when you demonstrate it, it's just six damage to every flyer. It clears the board of dragons and pesky angels, mostly. So, that's a pretty good choice. And also, Green Slime and Aven Interrupter. Now, you don't gain too much on the spot for demonstrating them, but there is some synergy with tokens and stuff. Now, I guess it's to be expected, but a lot of the flash creatures are protection or blink creatures, which is fine. Like, we don't really care what they do that much. We just want to do something on every turn to be able to use the demonstrate ability for other synergies.

[3:26] Then, they can protect our core pieces and also reuse any ETB effect. So, why not? We've got these and also a few legendary ones. Now, these can't be demonstrated, keep in mind, but they're still excellent utility to be using over and over again, so they're in. And aside from protecting permanence, green and white are also excellent at protecting ourselves from combat, mostly. He is Frog, Selfless Squire are excellent. Set's Tiger is very versatile. My favorite one, though, is Windshaper Planetar. You attack who I want you to, and yeah, reusing this over and over again is just brutal. Combine that with Sigarda's Vanguard, and you are dominating combat. And once again, the creature suite is pretty flexible. You can choose whatever flash creature.

[4:06] You can go a bit more staxy if you want, but I chose not to because I don't want to stacks myself when I demonstrate, and I do want to demonstrate for maximum value. All right, so And you can also even play just regular ETB creatures, but make sure you have plenty of flash enablers. That's one way to do it. Again, it's very flexible as long as you have the core. Another reason I chose to go with smaller flash creatures is that there is also a sweet package of enablers that can get us so much value from these small creatures. Well, for example, Karametra. Karametra with Whitemane Lion is just a classic combination. Another great card is Earthcraft. With this on the field, all your Whitemane Lions and any creature, really, they will reimburse you one mana on the spot, or even two if that's the one you chose to demonstrate.

[4:51] And also, we get to use a bunch of card draw engines, like the ones that trigger when you cast, or the ones that trigger when you when tokens enter, when creatures enter. Yeah, these are all excellent. Tishana, which is Miku now, I I guess. Everything is Miku now. And this is like a perfect card for this deck. You get to gain so much life, and the populate has excellent synergy with our commander. And God Eternal Oketra. This is a pretty resilient win condition, and yeah, this can amass a board state very quickly, and you can swarm your opponents. Oh, and also Suture Priest. Now, this one, I'm not sure if it's impactful enough, but it's super cute in this deck. You can demonstrate it, give a copy to, say, opponent A, and now every creature you demonstrate, you give to opponent B, which will drain them for three life each.

[5:35] This can add up pretty quickly if you have like two or three creatures being demonstrated per turn. And also, you know, they might play their own creatures. And if you really want to hate on this one person, you can bounce Suture Priest, demonstrate it again, and you will have five seven copies on the board. Yeah, that's pretty funny. And there are a few other enablers that are like made for this deck. The first one is the new Radagast. Yeah, this ability is just chef's kiss. It is perfect. And here we also get to play Aluren. And this one is might combo pretty easily. Yeah, but again, this is really the perfect deck for that. And finally, a game changer in Seedborn Muse. Because yeah, enter the battlefield decks, even if it's Selesnya, even if it's with a twist, it's pretty powerful and can be annoying to play against depending on your opponent.

[6:22] So, I'm not sure about including this in bracket two. And yeah, Seedborn Muse is the ideal game changer for this deck. So, yeah, bracket three is I think where we should be aiming for. For the other game changer, I chose Aura Shards because yeah, just imagine. So, these are the two I have for now. And last but not least, Silverquill Lecturer. This is basically our commander, but without any restriction. With this on the field, our deck shifts into another gear, but is at its best when we have enough mana, when we have enough resources. So, don't just drop this early if you have this in your opening hand, just drop the commander and save this for later. And that's the enablers. We have a few tutors like I mentioned before, mostly for White Main Lion and friends, but once you have the lion, you can tutor for anything.

[7:06] These are pretty flexible. The one that's interesting here is Defense of the Heart because your commander can essentially feed your opponent's creatures. So, it's very difficult for your opponents to stop the trigger. So, now I think you know what I mean when I say this deck does not run out of gas. The White Main Lions, the bounce creatures will constantly recycle our cards. We can play the same four or five cards for the entire game and just win with those. And all of our key creatures and commanders are protected by these bounce effects. When we have this kind of value engine, the only bottleneck is mana. So, I dedicated 19 slots to ramp in this deck. Now, most of them I chose creatures because they synergize with our commander, but I think it might be correct to actually go down to the two mana ramp options.

[7:48] I think what I'm doing is a bit greedy. So, if you try the deck, find it to be too slow, cut these Farhaven Elves for Nature's Lore. And a few non-creature options are these cost reducers. Yeah, these are brilliant for what we're trying to do. And that's it for lands. Since we are casting multiple spells a turn, we do need very good color fixing, leaning a bit heavier towards white. But as long as you keep your color fixing on point, uh you can play your favorite utility land. There's crazy synergy here, except for maybe a Dark Depths. A Dark Depths? Kind of Yeah, I can make copies of it, and then I can populate it. But yeah, I can find Oh, yeah. We do want Reliquary Tower because we can just hoard a massive Yeah, and we can like we just this entire hand's going to be recycled and So, that sounds pretty fun, you know, having 15 cards in hand and being able to use any of them at any time.

[8:38] Now, this deck does take a little bit to get started, but you do have a lot of ETB creatures in your hand, so you can just deploy them early. Even without Demonstrate, they can do decent work. And once you have Elda out, your deck turns into a different beast. And this probably one of the most resilient decks I've ever built. Yeah, like I mentioned earlier, once you have your engine set up, have a decent number of lands, you're not going to run out of things to do. The deck is pretty difficult to play. I tried it. There's a lot of sequencing. There's a massive decision tree sometimes. And playing at instant speed, while powerful, means that you have to pay attention all the time. Every time you get priority, there's potentially something to do. Also, these tutors, they require you to kind of know the deck, especially these X cost ones.

[9:19] You don't want to mess that up. Make sure to be very careful with your commander. Don't just drop it on turn four. If it gets removed, then yeah, your deck will be slowed down by a lot. Play with just your regular creatures, stall the game, and once you have six mana and one bounce creature in hand, now this is where you can deploy Elda. And the moment you untap with this, you enter Value Town. Now, again, I built a full budget version, but I I think this can be done at a lower budget. A lot of these expensive cards are really nice to have, but they're not really core to our game plan, except maybe I think Seedborn Muse will be nice to have. But everything else is just a fun luxury edition that you don't really need to have. The lion is the core of the deck.

[9:59] Okay, and that's all for the deck. Now, time for giveaway information. First of all, we once again have a giveaway for this video for the beautiful Kakapopo. Now, these I've been using long before I was sponsored, before I even had a YouTube channel, actually, and they've been quality. And we'll be giving away two of these, one to a random comment, and another randomly selected among comments that suggest cards that end up being chosen for the deck. Cuz we're trying to make these lists as tight as possible, and yeah, for the for the Nephilim video, for example, those suggestions were amazing. I ended up swapping out like 10 cards, but yeah, let's do the same for this video. And now, I'm announcing giveaway winners for the Homer video.

[10:39] We have Spades. Nice. And also, Plump. I hate you. But yeah, congratulations. Please contact me on Discord, and that's all we have today for the video. And but please stay tuned and subscribe because these mystery commanders are amazing. I keep See, I keep discovering more that I want to build. I can't even move on to other sets anymore. But yeah, these are sweet. I will see you in my next video.
