# We SHOULD Take Another Look at Vehicles (in EDH)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/paKYr06QYMk
date: 2026-06-30 | views: 9,586 | likes: 216 | comments: 63 | length: 9:13 | words: 2,025 | wpm: 220.0
tags: EDH, MTG, Magic the Gathering, Commander, Vehicles, Marvel Super Heroes

[0:00] Hello, how are you? This is Jin with Next Level Commander and today we have another list of underrated cards. We've done planeswalkers, we've done mana rocks, and today we are doing vehicles. Now, vehicles by its nature is very easy to underrate because it falls firmly into the category of traps for card evaluation and how that works is when you see a new card, it has a very strong signal for what kind of decks it can go into. My favorite example for this is Generous Patron. Now, clearly this is made for counter stacks, plus one plus one counters, and minus one minus one counters if you're thinking outside the box. But, for a card this is both a curse and a blessing. The blessing is that whenever you think of a counter stack, you think of Generous Patron. Well, the curse is whenever you think of Generous Patron, all you can think of is a counter stack.

[0:44] But, in reality Generous Patron is actually an excellent choice for pretty much any creature stack, whether it's ETB or recursion. And I think vehicles as a whole kind of suffers from this because clearly Wizards is trying to make vehicles kind of everywhere. Like, they want vehicles in all kinds of strategies and utilities. But, from our perspective, vehicles is such a unique and strange card type that I mean, they're they're just vehicles, they go into vehicle stacks. But, in reality they can do so much more. One great example of this is the Indomitable. Now, this is a really, really good card, but it suffers from the aforementioned trap, twice even. Once because it's a vehicle and another because it cares about pirates. As a result, it sees the lowest amount of play among all the Coastal Piracy variants.

[1:26] So, today we are going to go over 10 very underrated vehicles that might just work really well in your favorite EDH deck. Going from underappreciated to criminally underrated. We're starting with Conqueror's Galleon. Now, this is a classic from the original Ixalan. I'm not sure how well it keeps up with the power creep nowadays, but it's so unique with what it does. It's a vehicle that eventually flips into a land. It is a bit slow and fiddly. You have to cast it and the next turn crew and attack with it. But, once you do, the payoff is actually not bad, especially for decks that are desperate for ramp. It becomes a land and an excellent mana sink. I can see this being decent in a control deck, a deck that operates mostly at instant speed, cuz once it flips, it's going to stick around and generate value for rest of the game.

[2:07] Next up, we have something pretty spicy, the RMS Titanic. This probably doesn't fit into a lot of decks, but the ones that it does fit in, it's a bomb. And it synergizes with a lot of commanders. Of course, if it works with artifacts or commanders that can amplify damage, imagine this with the new absorbing man and Titania. That's 14 treasures or the good old Jessica. Also, the new Ares, God of War, he can crew and recur this pretty much every turn. Or if a commander gives haste, how about Alibou? Yeah, we have a lot of options. And if we're doing vehicles, we have to include Etherdrift. And there are a few gems here. The first one I want to talk about is Demonic Junker. Once again, is the trap. Well, you see this and it goes into artifact decks.

[2:47] Sure, it does, but even in the average deck, this effect is really powerful. Even for seven mana, even if you pay the full cost, it's a 4 for 1 killing three creatures and leaving behind a vehicle to attack and block with. But, are you really going to pay the full cost? Probably not. How many artifacts are there in your deck? If you're not in green, you probably have a decent amount of mana rocks. So, this will cost four to five mana in most cases. So, if your deck is in black and it has some artifacts or even some artifact energy, this should be considered. Another one from Etherdrift is Lumbering World Wagon. Now, the Regalia is popular for a good reason, but the World Wagon also is pretty solid. What's great about this one is the base being a three mana ramp and grow.

[3:29] But, it does have a pretty high ceiling being a consistent source of ramp and potentially a large beater. I want to evaluate this at somewhere between cultivate and Sword of the Animist. Both are staples in a large chunk of decks. Now, if your commander happens to be a five drop that you want to cast early and has four or more power, it seems like a good fit. Your Pantlaza, Egra, Korvold, just to name a few. Okay, next up, we have a new card, the Vibranium Mining Mech. Now, I can't say if it's underrated because there's no data on it. It just came out, but I feel like it's going to be overlooked. It might go into some artifact decks, and that's it. But, the way Vibranium tokens are worded is actually interesting. You can't cast non-artifact but you can use them to to activate abilities.

[4:10] So, if your deck or your commander has some of those, this can do a lot of work. And also, if you happen to have a decent number of mana rocks, the acceleration is very helpful. Keep in mind, these tokens are probably sticking around for rest of the game. This card sticks out to me because I have a Galazeth Prismari deck, and it's just perfect in there. So, if your deck also has ways to use mana aside from casting spells, maybe consider this. For number six, we have Forboding Steamboat. Now, this one is played pretty much nowhere, but it's actually not terrible. It's a bit like a mix between Barter in Blood and Grasp of Fate. It's an okay effect, and the cost is not cheap, but it's got a few little perks that for me pushes it to be playable. Well, first of all, like any competent edict effect, it ignores tokens.

[4:51] So, you will most likely get something good. And at the same time, it's got this political implication like Grasp of Fate does. Sure, technically you're hurting everyone, but there will be many scenarios where only one opponent is actively trying to blow this up. And when you do get to attack, it's a massive 5/7. You kill something for good, and you get to investigate. And when you kill that creature, maybe the politics shift, and you can play around with it. Maybe player A is holding off blowing this up for until after you process player B's Avacyn, but instead you kill player A's commander, let's say. Player A will be upset about it, but they're definitely leaving the boat alone. So, yeah, there's a lot of interesting interplays here, whether you're implicit or explicit with your politics. And next up, this one is kind of cheating cuz it's technically a creature, but the vehicle side is super relevant.

[5:35] Slicer, Hired Muscle and Slicer, High-Speed Antagonist. If you ever played the backside on turn three, you know what it's like. If you want a game where everybody starts at 30 life, 20 life, this is your boy. But, to be fair, not every game is magical Christmas lands. We're not getting this in every opening hand, so the responsible play is to have a deck that can support this even in the late game. The number one choice is, of course, equipment decks. Going through Slicer's EDH wreck, I don't see any equipment commanders, no Cloud, no Syer Gwyn, but you should really be considering him because aside from the massive damage you can do, imagine the triggers. Even just a Sword of Fire and Ice, Slicer is attacking four times per round. That's four tri Oh, wait, did you forget about double strike? I did.

[6:16] That's eight triggers potentially. That's ridiculous. Now, imagine this with the Buster Sword. How about the Ether Spark? Yeah, enjoy your 50 mana on turn five. Yeah, crazy card. Okay, next up we have the Belligerent. This is actually a very strong commander. I imagine it's probably pretty good in combo and storm decks. How many legendary creatures allow you to play from the top deck? There's this and the the Reality Chip. Yeah, that's a pretty unique ability and very breakable. But, just in the average deck, this is pretty good. I know a lot of decks play Mystic Forge. If your deck is not as combo-y and and more about accumulating value, this ship can do a pretty solid impression off the Forge. And if your commander is able to crew this without too much pressure, it will attack for a lot, give you a treasure, just value all around.

[6:59] It is at its best in decks that have top deck manipulation where you can shuffle or draw cards so that you can reset the top of your deck when you need to to get more value. And after this, we have another new card from Marvel and I I don't think people will underrate this card, but I figure I'd mention it just to be safe. Royal Talent Fighter Jet. This card is very pushed. Most of these effects, these X cost token makers, they create these tokens when they enter or when they attack. But, this one does both. And the vehicle itself is also a massive flying threat. But, I guess it's a vehicle and not a creature, so I guess they can push it a little more. But, the tokens can crew the vehicle. I mean, it's only crew two, so this basically feeds itself. And not just in token decks, either, in in artifact decks cuz those have a lot of flash enablers.

[7:40] You drop this at the end of turn and attack with it, and your opponents are on a clock. Also, decks that are in red, they can give haste. This is a massive board state out of nowhere, you know, in Zirgo, Ishin, go crazy. This is not even the best vehicle for a token deck. I've saved what I believe to be the most underrated vehicle for last. Valer's Flagship. The best kinds of token creation is always X and at instant speed. Now, they've made a bunch of pretty pushed options, but this one still has its place. The cycling ability is very similar to Decree of Justice, and they share the advantage of being instant speed, drawing a card, and also very importantly, they dodge conventional counter spells. And for those perks, I think paying two extra mana compared to the base form is pretty reasonable. Now, you will probably never not cycle it because, yeah, the top side is not that good of a card, but being an artifact is pretty useful.

[8:26] So, first of all, it is historic. That's relevant for a lot of the synergies. And say if you're in a token stack in white, you probably have something like Enlightened Tutor, right? That gets you a doubler, that gets you ramp, pretty much any utility aside from token makers. But now, you have that covered as well. Also, any other tutor, recursion effects, there's some synergy there. And I'm not seeing this card listed under any token commander, not Marwyn, not Balin, not even mono-white ones. Yeah, I think this deserves another look. Okay, that is my list. Do you have an unconventional vehicle you enjoy playing? Did I miss anything? Let me know. Ooh, and also, if you're looking for sleeves, deck boxes, just quality accessories, look up Kakapopo TCG. Because I have an affiliate code with them.

[9:07] If you use that, you get 5% off. This is Chain with Next Level and I'll see you in my next video.
