# A Guide to Playing with Exile (in EDH)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/perDdC69TAo
date: 2025-07-11 | views: 3,445 | likes: 66 | comments: 19 | length: 13:29 | words: 2,723 | wpm: 202.4
tags: mtg, commander, edh, deckbuilding, magic the gathering, edge of eternities

[0:00] Edge of Eternities is set in the void between the multiverse and the blind eternities. And now with the Eldrazi involved, things are about to get wild. We haven't seen the full spoilers yet, but it's already clear this set plays heavily with the exile. This zone, once called removed from the game, has become Magic's sandbox of weird ideas. It's where wizards dumps mechanics that don't quite fit anywhere else. But we've hit a point where there are enough Exile payoffs to build real powerful decks around it. I am Jyn and this is Next Level Commander. And today's video is a deep dive into playing with the Exile Zone mechanics, synergy, powerhouse cards, and three unique decks that each tackle exile in a different way.

[0:43] If you enjoy this kind of content, please like and subscribe. It helps me know what videos are landing with you. So, interacting with Exile is not quite as powerful as the graveyard. I mean, it should never be. or we have some serious problems with game design. But we do have some pretty unique advantages. For example, they've printed some hyperefficient hate for graveyard strategies, which of course is needed. A mere bajukabog or heavens forbid resting peace would ruin turns of setup for our graveyard bros. But exile, you just can't hit on exile. I mean, once something is plotted or foretold, it's even safer than being in your hand. They're not going away until you cast it. Although I know this guy exists, but yeah, just blow him up with feed the swarm or something and we're rolling again.

[1:26] You can't say the same about losing your graveyard, can you? So, while not being quite as efficient, Exile is actually the safest place in the entire game to accumulate resources. Exile is nothing. You can't mess with nothingness. The first legend that got people looking this way is probably Prosper the Homebound, and he is freaking popular. The abilities seem simple, but when you see a Prosper deck play out, it's just ridiculous value. But in the past couple of years, we got a ton of other options that are interesting and also powerful. Before we get to the decks though, we'll start off with some of the mechanics and synergies. Here's a clip where I was talking about Prosper, Impulse, Draw, Cascade, Discover, Plot, Forell, Magnus, Adventure, Suspend, Rebound, and Ragavan.

[2:08] Am I missing any? I'm sure there are a bunch of mechanics that I missed. You can get just about every utility that interacts with the exile zone, be it card draw, removal, board wipes, or ramp. And these exile mechanics can mix and match to great effect. I mean, imagine having six face up cards in exile, all from different effects along with a pile under void counters, one with collection counters, and don't forget hit counters. Your opponents should probably concede at that point. Cascade and Discover are my personal favorites among them because you can chain them into each other getting ridiculous triggers from the payoff cards like this one. Just look at this card. Holy crap. But more on the spicy payoffs later. Forell is also excellent because unlike most other similar mechanics, foretold cards are hidden and will keep your opponents guessing.

[2:54] Another perk of the Forell cards is that many of them have special effects when cast from exile. Delayed blast fireball, for example, gets a massive boost. The idea is you get a much bigger spell if you spend the extra mana and go through the trouble to foretell, but not in our decks because as long as we manage to cast this from exile with cascade, for example, we get the five damage. Similar effects can be seen on these new Final Fantasy designs and I think it's an awesome payoff. Another really interesting one is hideway. Some of these lands are actually sweet, but they also put hideway onto nonland cards. Ever cold earth sign is a card I've always wanted to play but can't find a deck for it until today. And of course, we have to talk about warp from Edge of Eternities.

[3:35] It's a strange mechanic, but these cards are just so cool. It's like they warp in and out of reality. What's the flavor? This girl just drops a quick silent dips or this guy who guards the door for a second and peace out drops all his weapons and armor. Uh then there's this. Yeah, not sure what's the lore on this one, but anyways, some of these are enter or leave the battlefield effects that you can get once from warp and later pay full cost for the entire package, while others can act as mini spells. I mean, sometimes you don't have enough mana to make a doubler and tokens in the same turn. No problems. We can get doubling for a turn at a discount. And same with ETB abilities. These designs are just fascinating. Can't wait to mix all these into our decks later on in the video.

[4:16] Now, enough about mechanics. We're talking about specific cards that are bonkers at enabling casting from exile. Let's start with italies. These are some of the bombiest creatures in all of Magic and in an exile matters deck, they are even more ridiculous. Remember this thing? Also, the main demon from Duskorn, Valgo. This is sweet. Just go around the table once and we'll probably get plenty of gas. And if our opponents won't comply, we can always do it ourselves. Opposition agent is an all-star, of course. Needs no introduction. But Ray, Ty extractor, and the gantis can also steal piles upon piles from our opponents. And while we're on the topic of robbery, I prefer the outrageous variety. Or just pay one more mana and get to cast them all for free. Seems good.

[4:57] Also, they've been printing removals that steal creatures for us to use. Even a freaking board wipe. But let's move away from black. Is it also has all these cards that allow us to spam the cast from exile triggers. Misix's mastery and Emato's augury, for example. And they're so mana efficient. I know it's weird to say that about an eight mana spell, but the kind of impact they can bring in the late game is disproportional. Also got to mention the Luvian primordial because it's not often looked at as an exile staple is more like a staple staple. Yeah, the card is nuts and even better with what we're doing here. Also worth noting if you exile something and copy it from exile, they count as being cast from exile. I'm pretty sure, but I was also pretty sure with things in my lens video and we know how that went.

[5:38] So, if you're a judge and I'm wrong here, just make a comment. I'll ping it. And of course, how can we forget about possibility storm? Everything comes in from exile. Now, this might be a bit too chaotic for some groups, but the ones that embrace it will be eating good with some of the value engines that we'll cover later. And the impulse draws, of course, Jessica's will needs no introduction. I heard it changes games, but I'm also a big fan of professional face breaker. It seems like everything nowadays makes treasures, and face breaker turns them into exile gas. Light up the stage is also an efficient little effect often overlooked, especially in the more aggressive decks. Getting the cards till the end of your next turn makes it much more likely that you will end up using both cards for full value.

[6:19] Impulse Draw is cool and all, but what about Impulse Tutor? Yeah, you heard that right. Besie the Mirror. There are just so many Exile related effects hidden all across Magic's history that I can't pretend to know them all. But as long as we keep our Exile goggles on, we'll surely find plenty of other cool gems. And before we stray too far from exile tutors, there's also this big dragon. Not only does it tutor for something into exile, it's also a payoff that gives convulk to all cards from exile. And this is our segue into the payoff section. Finally, we get to reveal the delicious cards that reward us for all this setup. First up, Malfni. Yes, it doesn't really matter what mechanic or tribe you're playing. You can never go wrong with doubling.

[7:01] And because of how difficult Exile is to work with, the payoffs are actually sweet. I mean, look at this one. Imagine doing this with the graveyard at four mana. It's not happening. Only with exile. Party thrasher 2, turning all our creatures into manadors for spells. Not something red usually has access to. Keeper of secrets is one of those win conditions when you change spells with something like cascade. Flaming Tyrannosaurus is a similar effect, but on a dinosaur, so that's always an upgrade. Also, there's this sweet background for just two mana, which we will be building around in one of our decks later today. Quintorious is a planaineswalker designed around plane from exile and it works really well with itself for more value and less burn everything down. Vega is a classic open-ended design.

[7:43] In blue, surge of brilliance works beautifully with the stormier exile decks. Extraordinary journey is a neat little tech I really like in blue. It's a bit like mhook massacre too. It's fine to play as just an enchantment, but if you have the mana, you can also bounce some creatures and get extra value as your opponents recast. We also have Sage of the Beyond, which is a fairly aggressive cost reduction effect. And fortune teller's talent, which is a bit slow, but you do get incremental value as you level it up, and eventually it becomes a self-powering engine. Moving on, a green savvy trader is sweet, but my favorite here has to be Tenali Hunter. Turning all our adventure cards into spells with a free creature attached. And at this point, you can see that exile payoffs are cool, but definitely a bit limited, especially in black and white.

[8:29] Although I have no doubt we'll continue to be fed new tools. For now, we have an imbalance. Abundance of choices, but not enough payoff and synergy. Fortunately though, we chose the right format. This imbalance can be patched to a large extent with our commander choices. Prosper goes without saying, and for the complete opposite colors, we have Kellen the kid. Fidor is a decent card overall, but I feel it might not do enough to warrant building around. But then I thought something similar about Prosper when it was first spoiled and we know how that went. Doc Erlock is crazy aggressively costed for what it does. I mean just look at the Sage of Beyond again for reference. But today we want something a little more interesting.

[9:09] Next up I have for you three decks that work with the exile zone in their unique ways. And I'm saving my favorite for the end. First off is the background we promised earlier. Passionate Archaeologist with Durnan of the Yanning Portal. This deck kind of just builds itself. Just look at these enablers. Scorpions, dinosaurs, and surprise, it's now fetchne again. Duran's ability is actually so powerful in multiplayer, allowing us to dig and cast a creature at a massive discount. But we can't just rely on that once a turn, though. We're definitely bringing in them signs, Italy's cascading monsters. Oh, and this one for sure. Our opponents will just be glaring at this in awe while we pew pew them with the background. For other creatures and utility, we're prioritizing ones with exile mechanics like adventure, plot, forell, and all that good stuff.

[9:52] And of course, we're playing these cards with the From Exile boosts. Yeah, seems fun. And I can't wait to see more warp cards from Edge of Eternities, and I'm sure they'll make a payoff card or five for this mechanic. Anyways, our next deck is for the spell slingers. Laya, Undefeated, Slickshot. And honestly, I couldn't quite believe when I first saw this. For just three mana, you get all your spells twice. I mean, multicolored is a bit restrictive, but the payoff is massive, giving the is it spell slinger deck a completely different pattern of play. In the early stages, we're playing the typical controlly game. I mean, the usual counter spells and removals and certain draw spells, we're still going to play whether they're multicolored or not. But whenever we get a window, we try to sneak out a multicolored spell, get some value, and send it to the plot.

[10:37] So, it's like setting bombs all over the place and waiting to blow them up in the end. What these spells do honestly isn't the most important here. It could be draw damage. Now, keep in mind that counter spells or something like inverse polarity don't actually work from plot because they can't be cast when they are valid targets on the stack. And once we have a critical mass of those in the midame, we can play one of the payoff cards and just go off. With just five cards plotted, we'll be getting a ton of value. With 10, we're easily looking at straight up winning the game. And of course, plotting won't be our only way of storming off. There's still music mastery, remember? Now, back to winning the game. Let's start with a fun one. How about storm spplitter? Let's say we cast this and then seven spells from plot.

[11:19] That's 128 copies. Probably enough to kill a few opponents. How about sorcerers class? Seven spells with that is 28 damage to each opponent. Now, if we're not ready to kill just yet, we can store some mana and refill our hands to continue the fight or embrace the chaos with bonus round or this monstrosity. I'm actually scared to recommend this cuz I can't even resolve this card properly when the storm count goes up. So yeah, if you play this, don't at me. Get your play group to help figure out what happens. I'm sure they would love to. Also, some honorable mentions, Ether Flugs, Mind's Desire, Crackling, Splinger, whatever places you the most really or confuses your opponents the most. Is is it isn't it it fun?

[11:59] Never mind. And next up, we have our personal favorite, Ganty Kenny Inquisitor. Now, in this deck, we're barely playing any of the payoffs or enablers except the most exceptional ones like Doc Erlac. But here, we're actually taking advantage of the safety of the Exile Zone. In the early game, we ramp hard and send out small evasive creatures to loot as much as we can. And that's all our deck is designed to do. No win conditions, no answers. And in the mid to late game, we'll just be playing with a hand of 20 to 30 cards sponsored by our opponents and win with that. Because again, unlike any other resource, the exile cards we accumulate early on are untouchable unless an opponent loses the game, so keep them alive. And that's pretty much the deck.

[12:39] Evasive creatures, prioritizing the ones with unblockable because our opponents will eventually get flyers and gingerbrew because food. Some of our ram choices will also be interesting with rituals and one use artifacts because we'll most likely have three evasive creatures ready to attack on turn three. So ideally, we have our commander out by then. So, the ones I almost never play in other decks, especially not other green decks, make their way into this one. And of course, the traditional RAM cards to set us up for later on. Oh, and a few GI backups. That's it. Simple, clean, and elegant. And there you have it. Exile once the remove from the game zone. Now, a fullblown strategy space at your fingertips. This is Jyn from Next Level Commander.

[13:19] Please like and subscribe and let me know what exile commanders you're playing. Also, which sweet tech did I gloss over completely? There's probably a bunch.
