# Homer is Saving My Mental Health
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/PfoYSJfyhoc
date: 2026-08-18 | views: 73,353 | likes: 1,979 | comments: 951 | length: 9:06 | words: 2,055 | wpm: 226.1
tags: Homer, Mill, Commander, Magic, EDH, Magic the Gathering, Mystery Commander

[0:00] Hello everyone, this is Jin with next &gt;&gt; Who am I fooling? I I don't even know what this is anymore. I'm not okay. I haven't been okay for for days ever ever since I haven't been sleeping well. I kept dreaming about those eyes and the board states. Oh, those board states. My family tried to help. They they tried to intervene, but but it's been one step forward, two steps back. And and I hate to say it, but I have to say it. It's it's you. It's you guys enabling all of this. These dopamine reward triggers. Make more Ugu. Make more Ugu. Make more Ugu.

[0:40] Oh, and the sponsor. They don't care about my mental health. It's all business. Another giveaway. Another giveaway. Okay, fine. Let's do that first. Um Comment, subscribe. And I will pick two random comments to win a sweet deck box and accessories from Kakapopo TCG. And yeah, just comment anything. Anything is helpful. Actually, there's one exception and I'm sure you know what it is. Oh, and what would be really helpful is because I'm doing giveaways now for every video and I'm just picking the winners at random. Is there a better way to do this? Because I'm picking two winners each time. So, sure one of them can be random, but for the other one can we do something fun? Yeah, let me know if you have any cool ideas. But today, this video is a recovery process. It's a step called response substitution. A less destructive alternative. A tribal commander from the same set, same mana cost, the same art if you squint hard enough.

[1:25] It's Homer, our therapist. Homer will get me out of this destructive relationship. It's another tribal commander that I'm not building as tribal. I I promise I don't hate tribal. I have a lot of tribal friends and I was really tempted to try to go tribal with this because look at this batching. It's so many things. But then if Jund or Todd us anything when they're overly generous with batching, it's because they're mostly probably crap. And yep, they are. And this is even worse than Jund or cuz Jund or is like it can enable terrible creatures by itself. That was the deck. But with Homer, we're milling. Yeah, we've got a few crabs that mill, but the rest of these creatures are not doing that. Well, to be fair, they're not really doing anything. But yeah, there really isn't much energy here with the commander. But why am I building this anyways?

[2:06] Because Homer does something that is actually pretty unique that I wasn't able to find in any other legendary creature. Let's dial it back to 2013 when I built my second ever commander deck. It was a Mimeoplasm deck, and with that I learned early that milling in EDH doesn't work that well unless you're using milling as your enabler or your secondary win condition where your primary win con is stealing things from graveyards. Those decks work really well. But the problem with those is you need to mill first to get the train going, but you also don't want to play too many mill cards cuz they don't really do anything aside from milling. Yeah, sure, sometimes you can win by decking others, but it's really not efficient enough to be a powerful, reliable win condition. But Homer solves that problem all by themself.

[2:47] With Homer, we don't need to play any other mill card. We just need a few versatile little friends to turn Homer into the only mill engine we ever need. Also, from the rest of the deck, it can be all gas. And this is something I've never seen in any commander, especially not in these colors. I mean, these are just the perfect colors for our gameplay. So, who are those friends? Now, you probably own a few clones in your collection, and most of them you're probably using for our previous deck, Ugu. And whatever you're not using can go here because in this deck we are only using clones that bypass the legend rule, which is the opposite of what Ugu wants. Spark Double, Sakashima, whatever it is, just get one of them onto the field, and now Homer is milling eight cards per the land drop. In a four-player game, that's 32 cards into the graveyard.

[3:28] And if that land is a fetch land, it's 62 cards. Now, what's amazing about decks like this is the graveyards. Not just your graveyard, all the graveyards are like your hand. And with something like Reanimate, you can just pick the single best creature out of those 64. Yeah, your opponents can play graveyard hate, but they have to hate on themselves or each other. But then they have to consider being milled out as an actual threat. Because if you manage to just get one more clone on Homer, Now, each Flash land will pretty much half their deck size. And what's nice about these clones is they're so versatile. They don't have to copy Homer. I mean, later on, whatever creatures you stole from your opponents, you can get multiple copies. So, Homer enables a mill deck that can just bypass the mill pieces and only focus on enjoying the feasts from your opponent's graveyards.

[4:09] Are you sold? Let's get started. Okay, to start with, we're playing just a few clones to double up our Homer triggers. Not nearly as crazy as we're going with Ugu, just six. And once again, these are the Sakashima type clones that bypass the legend rule. Now, similar to clones, we also have roaming throne. This one we all know, and also Formless Genesis. This one has brilliant synergy with Homer cuz we can mill this into the graveyard and probably mill more lands and retrace this. And these tokens will be pretty big while adding to our lobster count. So, yeah, thanks to Homer, we get to skimp a little bit on the enablers part. But we still have to be pretty disciplined with how we use the slots saved here. We need those landfall triggers. So, ramp seems like a natural conclusion. Also because a lot of the reanimation cards are super greedy.

[4:50] They're expensive, high impact. You know, these cards can win the game on their own, but we do need the mana to back them up. So, we're looking at a lot of the typical choices. We have a decent curve from two, three, four drop. And more notably are these cards that can return lands from graveyard, like Aftermath Analyst, Wail of the Soul Tie, Head Shredder, and of course Ice Tail Explorer. Combine those with ramp spells that put lands into the graveyard along with some of these cards that are mill payoffs. We have a pretty synergistic ramp package here. Okay, now we have the core, the boring part. We get to have some fun using the graveyards. Let's start with creatures. You can see that these effects are pretty expensive, but I'd say we've done pretty well to set up for them. Each of these can be game winning on their own. We also have some cheaper, more versatile effects.

[5:31] Holding a reanimate looking at four graveyards with 30 cards each. Yeah, this triggers a core childhood memory of walking into Panda Express. Wow, the therapy is working. And meanwhile, these ones are not as explosive, but the repeatable use is something your opponents must deal with. If you've played or played against the Scarab of you know cards like these can take over games all by themselves. And of course, we're not leaving the spells alone either. We're taking everything. And once again, a lot of these are pretty expensive, but we can afford it. And also because these creatures, we can just reanimate from our graveyards. One of my favorite cards here is Memory Plunder. It's old, but they haven't printed anything close to this yet. Holding this, you have access to every instant and sorcery in every graveyard as a response. And that feels pretty good. While it's not the main idea, but we can also play with our own graveyards, especially with these Crucible effects.

[6:14] And I'm pretty excited to be able to eventually pull off a Yawgmoth's Will in the late game. But yeah, we're mostly playing with our opponent's graveyards because this way you're less vulnerable to graveyard hate and also just you have so many options. We have around 25 cards dedicated to that. And once you have the graveyards filled up, you're going to feel that your individual card quality is so much higher than your opponents. Whatever utility you want, you can just steal most of the time. But we do need some basic utility just to cover our bases, like Lightning Greaves because Homer is pretty important to our game plan. Black Market Connection is just too good to not include. Make sure you try to steal some life gain effects from your opponents cuz you will be very tempted to pay six life a turn and you will die. Happened to my friend's friend and he's been made fun of ever since.

[6:55] Some removal, some board wipes. Singularity Rupture is one of the very few mill cards that has good utility attached, so we include that. But once again, thanks to Homer, we're not playing any of the pure mill cards. And for lands, I'm not a fan of off-color fetches, but this deck, it seems like they make a massive difference. Although good news, they seem to be making more Evolving Wilds variants. So that makes the more budget-friendly deck list viable. Aside from the fetch lands, my utility is mostly focused on cards that interact with a graveyard. Like these cards, we can use their abilities and then return them as lands. Lotus Field is something I'm very careful about playing, but it seems like a pretty good choice here. And yeah, because of the fetch lands, we don't have too many non-basic options. And that's the deck. The game plan is fairly simple.

[7:35] Whether you get a clone or not, you get Homer out, start milling. Homer is probably not a huge target for removals, but with our ramp spells, we should be able to recast it once or twice, no problem. And once we have the graveyard set up reasonably well, we snowball from there. It's very difficult to stop this deck. And to shut us down, your opponents have to hate on each other's graveyards, which is the only way to really stop you. But if they finally decide to pull the trigger on that, I have just one more evil piece of tech, Oblivion Sower. They exile each other's graveyards thinking you've been dealt with, you cast Homer, and then this, and the game is over. This is actually evil. I'm not going to put this even in the in &gt;&gt; in the in the deck list. I'm just going to leave this here for you guys who've watched till the end. But yeah, thank you.

[8:16] This deck while takes some practice to play you must keep track of every graveyard, especially with some instant speed interactions. You need to know what you can do at any moment, and you probably have what, 40 to 80 cards to be sifting through. And you might even be able to combo off with your opponent's cards, and that requires you to know every deck on the table. In terms of price, this deck can be pretty expensive with all the fetch lands and all the graveyard interactions. You can build a budget version, but this is one of those lists that would really benefit from some extra investment. The bracket should be three. I didn't put any game changers into the list, but I think bracket three is the right call for this one. And that's it. Thank you for watching my video once again. This is Jin, and this is my first day clean.

[8:58] If you want to support my recovery process, check out Kakapopo TCG. You can use my discount code levels to get 5% off, and I'll see you in my next video.
