# The BEST Silverquill Deck is $90
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/pVqvX0PhQlM
date: 2026-04-16 | views: 12,635 | likes: 348 | comments: 62 | length: 11:18 | words: 2,497 | wpm: 221.4
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 1:39 The Engine; 2:49 The Tier List Noone Asked For; 5:59 The toolbox; 9:37 Options for Higher budget
tags: Silverquill, Strixhaven, Secrets of Strixhaven, EDH, Commander, Budget Deck, MTG, Magic the Gathering

[0:00] People are building silverquill wrong. I'm not saying those other lists are Actually, quite the opposite. They're probably really freaking good. I mean, tokens and big spells, you can't go wrong with those. But that's what they are, just token decks and big spell decks. And if that's what you're looking for, I'm sure they can do a solid job, but they're not silverquill decks. Also worth mentioning in the same cycle, there happens to be arguably a better spells commander, and witherbloom is probably better for tokens. The colors is a bit rough, but the mechanic is so perfect for the spells and tokens archetype that a lot of people are doing with silverquill. But yeah, this is how I've learned to define best in EDH. The strategy that this particular commander enables better than anyone else.

[0:41] Shorikai, for example, is a really powerful blue white control commander, but is that really a Shorikai deck? Meanwhile, if you play vehicles, it might not be quite as strong, but it does have a much better identity that is built around the commander. Okay, back to silverquill. Big spells seems to be the popular way, except Orzhov doesn't have that many big spells and the deck seems really fragile. The moment our dragon gets dealt with, it becomes two separate piles with barely any synergy. Yeah, so silverquill is about the interaction between spells and creatures. It wants creatures and it wants spells and wants something that unites creatures and spells, spells and creatures, spells and sacrifice, all that together. Oh, if you came from my last video of Skriff, you might have a bit of an idea. Honestly, I'm not sure why I'm doing this again, maybe because I just happen to be in that headspace, or it's some kind of unhealthy obsession.

[1:27] It's probably the latter, but anyways, here you go. This is the plan. Yes, these undying draft chaffs again, but this time with a little twist because I've always noticed among the recurring black last picks, there are two piles of spells that kind of synergize well with each other. You know, combining these with these, I can turn three cards into three cards for the low low cost of a bunch of mana. Doesn't feel like the most efficient play, but now imagine something like this with silverquill on the board. Honestly, it's kind of complicated. I goldfish the deck over and over again, and it didn't help. Let's work it out together. Okay, first I cast undying evil, I'll copy it by sacrificing our little helper here and give undying to our solemn and your gym ball. And next up, we costly plunder the solemn and casualty the your gym ball to copy that.

[2:11] These both come back and we draw four cards. And of course, the dying and ETB trigger from solemn. That seems decent, and we get more gas to keep going with different creatures, too. I mean, it's by no means broken, but silver is the only commander that makes something like this possible. So, why don't we give it a shot? I mean, it's only $90, not even half a tank of gas nowadays. And did you know that with this deck, you can save 100% on gas because you won't be invited to go anywhere anymore? Okay, more on the synergies and inner workings later, but let's start by introducing our chaffs. So, the secret to budget deck is a a big column of draft chaff. And here we have two. Let's start with the undying ones. We're playing with 13 of them, all slightly different. Oh, you know what? We should make a tier list. Well, let's take a look at this one. Two mana plus two plus zero, that is awful.

[2:52] My guys aren't even dying to combat. Take your own death, also plus two, but getting a treasure is really good. It's as good as it gets here. So, uh what do I need death touch for? I guess surprise combat trick. Am I chump blocker? Yeah, it's still crap. Crap. Ooh, lifelink. Crap. Look, we have an uncommon carrying the bunch. Let's see, suspect. Crap. Hold up, what is this? We got M&amp;M over here. Yeah, this is like the OG undying effect. We got to respect the OG, right? Just kidding, it's crap. Okay, less crap are these one mana ones. Undying evil, feign death, supernatural stamina. Now, all the undying effects are awful magic cards in a vacuum, yes, but there is a tier S option, but we can't afford it. Where's my reprint? I swear they're going to save these till return to return to Zendikar and milk those special guest slots.

[3:37] But anyways, on a brighter note, let's take a look at our cannibalism themed package here. Also a tier list, but this time with a bit more variance. Altar of reap is the base effect. The ones coming after are usually tagged with some set mechanics, so yeah, this one is pretty bad, but the option to sack artifacts is nice here in a pinch, but not that much of a boost. Map token, that's like, yeah, the worst set mechanic, almost as bad as mutagen. Treasure, okay, that's what I'm talking about. These ones are amazing when copied, which they will be. Straight to tier A. Eviscerator's insight, okay, this one is solid. The flashback is very useful in the late game. Nasty end has a decent upside. We can definitely sack our commander if there's no better option and draw six when copied. Lifegain is cool, but nothing to write home about.

[4:19] Plumb the forbidden is interesting. Normally, this is like the best of the bunch, but in this deck, it's slightly more complicated because when copied with casualty, we only get to draw one extra card with this, rather than two or three. But it does have a higher ceiling. It can go off with stuff like Professor Onyx, so there it goes. And the one mana ones, once again, are some of the best. Sure, the ceiling isn't quite as high as the treasure making ones, but these are twice as likely to keep mana open for. And when your deck has a mix of instant and sorcery speed stuff, this is a very big deal. And some of the crappier ones show how low we're willing to go just to get a lot of these effects. Three mana, sure, no problem. Sorcery speed, okay, I'll take it. And uh morbid curiosity, yeah, this one is not like not crap.

[5:01] I guess there's some potential, like we can sacrifice our commander for four cards, which becomes eight when copied. That's good, but no, not really. Finally, tier S, we have Midgard. I mean, the spell is awful, so it might be a bit contentious, but being on a land is just such a massive upside. I mean, if there's no limit to how many of these I can play, I would probably replace at least five lands, maybe five of these with Midgard. And guess what? Congratulations, now you have two very useless tier lists. Screenshot these, not for EDH reasons, but it's like a mental wellness check. If one day while building a deck, you're like, "Ooh, I remember that tier list of common undying effects, I should check it." Get help, or double down and start a YouTube channel.

[5:41] And here is the core engine of the deck. This part remains fixed along with the commander. We make very little change here, no matter who we play against. Even the full budget version plays pretty much the same list of chaff here. Next part is fun, though, because we have a toolbox of creature cards, and those you can adjust however you want, depending on your meta and your budget. Just keep the meta curve in mind. Don't go too crazy with big dumb idiots. Also make sure you have some of these fodders. These are really useful for getting the first undying effect copied to start our value train. So, let's start with the fodders, the cat, the dog, the vampire, the consumer, and this unlucky wizard, I guess. Chittering witch and company commander are some of the best token creators, bringing us four bodies for four mana. Callous bloodmage is excellent.

[6:22] I find that each mode is chosen around 50% of the time when I play the deck. That's the sign of a modal spell being a great fit. A few of these just in case we miss our land drops or someone goes nuts with ramp. Unless that someone is us, because solemn is a great card pretty much anywhere, but in this deck, it's actually one of the best creatures to kill over and over again. Make sure to use this art for the why me again vibes. Some edict effects and the chupacabra but chup copy this thing to deal with the creature decks. Skyclave apparition deals with a massive range of problems, and I'm a big fan of your gym ball. Both chapters one and two are immensely useful, and we can reset it over and over again. Flickerwisp has a lot of flexibility. It can be used defensively or for value.

[7:03] Blinking our ETB effects is nice, but the reason it makes the cut is for protecting our commander or other key pieces when something like a farewell inevitably comes. Another safety valve is even interrupter. Having this in your hand or on the board just makes passing the turn feel so much safer. Gray merchant is our win condition. This deck does have problem with closing games. Kokushou is $20, so gray merchant will do, and it's more than sufficient. Just a few blinks should crumble your opponent's life total and their world will continue. Some of the other more expensive utility creatures include puppeteer clique and chunge. These are just my favorites at the moment. You can putting pretty much anything. I also did draft up a non-budget version, though. I'll cover that later in the video. Some of the upgrades are pretty sweet. But yeah, that wraps up our toolbox package.

[7:44] We should also have a few enablers aside from the commander itself. These can cost a little more, but they really can turn our game actions into mini value explosions. First of all, at $3, we have luminous broodmoth. We do have a few flyers, but not too many. Unfortunately, our commander is one of them, but but this is still really good. It's like a mini Mikaeus that doesn't combo. Next up is Sedgemoor witch. With this, we'll never run out of fodders, and it will even accumulate a small army to swarm our opponents with. And finally, Professor Onyx. Honestly, I'm not sure this is the best card to spend money on, but it's just it feels so fitting. I mean, it comes in, wrecks our opponent's board, and if it sticks, every time we do our badabing badaboom, we drain each opponent for eight life. That seems decent.

[8:25] Okay, and just the last bit of wrap-up, the cards will flow in this deck as soon as we set up our engine, so it will be difficult to run out of gas. So, because of that, we do need a decent chunk of ramp. We are prioritizing two drop mana rocks because these are much easier to weave in between our actual value plays. The only three cost ones I play here are Bender's water skin and relic of legends. It's very likely that we'll use the water skin's four mana per gold round fully, and relic can potentially top for more than that if we start to loop some legendary creatures. Okay, onto the lands. Aside from mana fixing, we prioritize these ones that make tokens. A few budget MDFCs, and that's a wrap. And there's the deck. The Christmas land board state does take a little bit to set up.

[9:06] You need your commander, two creatures with strong ETB, and another fodder, either token or doggle. But what's nice about a deck like this is your early game is also filled with action. You get these cheap ETB creatures to answer things, and all of these cards pretty much have cycling as long as you get them in pairs. We dig for lands and ramp and work our way into the mid game. Once we have a decent board, we drop silverquill and live Speaking of living life, say, "What if we have a little more budget? What are some upgrades we can look at?" Well, I've also included a full budget list down below, but there's a lot of good stuff. The first card I would splurge on is without question Kokushou. Yeah, actually, I would suggest proxying the commander and spend that $20 on this because we definitely need win conditions, and dropping Kokushou along with our commander will end the game fast.

[9:50] Second place is a bit closer, but probably probably Mikaeus. Yeah, I'm sure you've heard of him. Even though I can't think of any infinite combos in this deck, my queue will probably find one anyways. Following that, I also want to try Sephora. Flipping him will be really easy and with enough resources, we can actually bring him back, flip him over and over. With a lack of win conditions having two of these emblems will completely change our game. For utility creatures, recruiter of the guard is something we'd want to sack over and over again. Shieldred is expensive, but the edict effect is so good and the backside can also win games. Also, Sedecy is crazy value. Aside from these, the upgrades become more diminishing returns actually. Actually, Cauldron Haze is a card I've been wanting to use for a long time and it seems great here.

[10:32] Some of these MDFCs can do a lot of work and winding canyons is a personal favorite. But yeah, I imagine this to be an excellent deck for starting with a budget shell and then working your way up. Every bomb you acquire along the way will make a great difference. The deck is very resilient to disruption. We can easily rebuild after board wipes, but this is actually one of the higher complexity decks I've built. There's a lot of decision making and triggers to stacking and sometimes you just have to cycle these cards before the commander comes out just to keep the train rolling. But it's also possible to run out, so there's a lot of resource management here. And also, this is a new commander, so I haven't had too much time to play test, but if you do end up building it, please let me know how it goes. Or do you know any other sweet Silver Goad decks?

[11:15] Also, leave a comment. This is Jin with
