# Aristocrats REDEFINED with the Hobbit (Tom, Bert and William)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/Q7m-mO87W8Q
date: 2026-05-05 | views: 6,984 | likes: 188 | comments: 38 | length: 8:43 | words: 1,842 | wpm: 211.5
chapters: 0:00 <Untitled Chapter 1>; 3:10 Skip Ad
tags: The Hobbit, Tales of Middle Earth, MTG, EDH, Tom Bert and William, Commander, Aristocrats, Golgari, Magic the Gathering, Lord of the Rings, LOTR

[0:00] Okay, a ton of spoilers are here and it's always exciting to sift through these legends and see which ones are fun to build. Do any of these stand out to you? Okay, let's take a look through all these one by one. Just kidding, it's these idiots and it's not close. Sacrifice a creature, draw equal to power, this is ridiculous. Protects itself, too. Hold your pipe weed, this will be the greediest aristocrat stack you've ever seen. Now, these guys are different than Gitrog. Gitrog solves our mana problems, the trolls don't. But it's more easily repeatable, so we'll have endless stream of cards if we can keep feeding them big creatures. But big creatures cost big mana, usually. If only green and black had something like sneak attack where I can just spend one mana, cheat a fatty in, get some triggers, sacrifice, draw, sneak, and repeat.

[0:44] But in green and black, is there a way for Golgari to give us a constant stream of quality fatties for low mana cost? If we can keep the cards flowing. Hmm. Huh. Ho ho, would you look at that? It's these again, please don't leave. Okay, just imagine with me. Imagine this game state. And now imagine how you can lose from here. Exactly, you can't. But the more astute of you may have noticed something odd. We have seven mana, how do we get all these into play? Yeah, good question. Well, you see, reanimate is just a mostly better version of these undying effects. So, what if alongside ramp, we also include a reanimator package? That seems reasonable. And it turns out a lot of the cards we play are incidentally very good at filling the graveyard, even our commander.

[1:28] Okay, we have a deck. Fat aristocrats. Screw sacking these tiny little weenies for I draw a card, I drain one life. Exile a thing, but only four mana or lower. Instead of the little dorcs, we've got these juicy boys as fodders. The Armageddon, the Terastodon. Hold up. What sound is that? Is that Oh. No way. A sponsorship? After a year of dedication and milking my friends' deck ideas, are we going full-time milking? Okay, not really. Well, so here's how YouTube sponsorships work when you're big and popular, brands will approach you with offers, you negotiate, and you take the best one that you can morally justify.

[2:09] That doesn't happen here. For us smaller creators, we find a product we enjoy and we go ask for an affiliate link. If you're interested in some high-quality accessories that really stand out, check these out. But if not, just skip this part. So, in my case, the brand I found is Kakapopo. I've been using their deck boxes for over a year now, before I even started this channel, and they're really high-quality. These ones still look brand new. Now, some tiny marks on the edges if I look hard enough, but I do not handle these with care. So, yeah, excellent quality. Also, these designs, just see for yourself. They do stand out. See something like this, I would expect to pay something like $70, but well, go to their site and see for yourself. They have a lot of sweet designs with excellent prices.

[2:50] And if you're interested, use my code levels, all caps, for a discount on top of already excellent prices. If you do, thank you. It does give me motivation for all the late night editing. But let's be honest, I'll keep making content anyways, this is just stuff I enjoy doing. So, don't feel obligated or anything. But if you do happen to need some sleeves or deck boxes or dice, give them a shot. They will not disappoint. All right, back to our fatties. We do have some really impactful stuff, a bit like the Gisa deck. If we're building an engine to reuse cast, ETB, or dying triggers over and over again, we might as well go with the biggest. Why blow up one thing when I can do three? Also, just look at these delicious bodies. We're drooling over here. For more removals, we have Sheoldred, but also this Shadow Grange Archfiend.

[3:32] This card is ridiculous cuz the deck has a lot of instant speed discard outlets. It's like an eight-power creature that reanimates itself. And Massacre Wurm, this will destroy decks that go wide. For non-creatures, we are playing Bane of Progress. We do have a few important enchantments, but looping this will straight-up hose certain decks. Just be careful with this if your commander is transformed. And if we're able to set up the engine, we should prioritize solidifying the advantage. And the best way to do that is with over-the-top ramp. Cultivator Colossus is ridiculous with a big hand and Lumara or recover whatever we end up discarding. It also adds to the graveyard. So, Pollen-Blight Druid is an all-star in the late game and an excellent finisher. With just a few triggers, we take over the game. And Kokusho, oh, you cannot miss Kokusho.

[4:13] We're also going a bit heavier with tutors because we have to be restrained when it comes to the number of fatties, only a few for each kind of utility, because we don't want to be too top-heavy with the deck. The best one here is Protean Hulk. Not having this exile itself is such a design oversight, and we are always here to capitalize. Ghalta is one of the best reanimation targets and it's also ridiculous late game when we have 20 cards in hand. And we have a really interesting finisher here in Guff Triplets. We can just end the game with this and our commander, we don't even need anything else. We'll draw into the undying effects. When using the undying effects, though, be careful to make sure you stack the triggers properly. You let the Guff Triplets come back first and then resolve the one where you place the counters. So, just one round, we end up with five 6/6s.

[4:55] One more round and we end up with four 12/12s and three 9/9s. Now, please double-check my math, but if it's correct, it's just ridiculous, isn't it? A lethal board state out of nowhere. Now, just like with any utility package, it's fairly flexible. My group is pretty creature-heavy, so I ended up with more creature removals, but there are tons of excellent options that you can mix and match. For filling the grave, we have all the best entomb effects. These two are must-haves. Imagine a Survival of the Fittest with Archfiend in your deck. Also, these two drop enchantments. For reanimation, it has to be low cost and we have the best ones. Also, these ones stable to a creature. Oh, and of course, the most exciting cards of the deck, these undying effects. I get it, playing the same common 15 times may get boring and repetitive, but think about it.

[5:36] It's It's an opportunity for us to explore Magic's world-building, seeing how people resist death in different worlds, on different planes. It's a deep dive in their customs and even values. Fascinating. See, in Innistrad, it's straight-up comfy, classic reanimation. In Ravnica and D&amp;D, you just pretend to be dead. Yeah, remember when I was decapitated? Just kidding, slight of head. And in Tarkir and Amonkhet, you just tough it out, I guess. Yeah, you can just choose not to die. Liliana hates this one trick. All right, now we cannot depend entirely on reanimation. We green, we got to ramp. And how hard I choose to ramp in each deck depends largely on how much card advantage our commander can generate. And in this case, we're playing, I guess, all of them.

[6:17] Now, in this deck, we do have a lot of creature synergy, so we're including all the three-mana ones. The Overlord also count. The Tortoise and the Cavalier are less efficient, but they do help fill the grave. Now, the best quote-unquote ramp halves are actually these ones over here. The Piper and Olivia are excellent if they are able to stick. And this one is a bit strange, Heartless Summoning. This is a crazy strong card, but it's awkward in many decks. It also can be in this one. I mean, it just kills the Piper. But having this around for a few turns can generate so much advantage. You have to try it. For other utility pieces, we have Greater Good. This is basically an alternative version of our commander, but arguably better. The Siphon can come in clutch as a one-use. Scourge Familiar is a bit expensive, but will win games in the later phases.

[6:58] Torbran is another alternative win condition, also a decently large body as fodder. And Demonic Tutor, yeah. For lands, we prioritize sack outlets. We need them to maximize the built-in protection in our commander. This way, we're not only dodging the destroy effects, but all spot removals and creature board wipes. And these ones, for their graveyard synergies, the Kamigawa channel lands are great because we have ways to recover them after use. And these are the MDFCs we choose. Nine basics is a bit low, but if we get all nine onto the battlefield, we're probably doing okay, so not too worried about that. Now, the deck is not super explosive. It does require ramp or reanimation in the early game to get going. And depending on the game state, but usually we're not really in a rush to cast our commander. I'd say we want seven to eight mana before we drop the trolls, because we want to make sure that once we drop them, the value train will be unstoppable.

[7:45] The deck is not too difficult to play, it's a typical graveyard/aristocrats kind of strategy. It does search the deck a lot, so knowing what to tutor for in different situations can be helpful. Now, the budget isn't exactly low, but if you look at the expensive cards, I don't think they're I mean, they're powerful cards, but they're not essential to our game plan. So, let's say if we keep the budget under 200, there will be a downgrade, but it's not massive. I think it's doable. But even if you cut all the game-changers, this deck should be bracket three. I don't think it's fair to put this in bracket So, yeah. Personally, I found that sets are pretty hit or miss in terms of interesting commanders. There's barely anything I wanted to build from Turtles and Spider-Man. Meanwhile, Avatar and Strixhaven each had like half a dozen of commanders I wanted to build.

[8:28] I have a pretty good feeling about Hobbit, so I'll be looking closely at the most interesting legends from this set. So, if you're interested, make sure to subscribe and follow along. Also, do check out Kakapopo, and make sure to use my code levels, all caps, for a discount. I'll see you.
