# I've Been LOSING to the Same Deck for 6 Years | Commander-Centric Deck Tech
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/RWEr2JTpmi0
date: 2026-04-29 | views: 15,540 | likes: 507 | comments: 112 | length: 8:11 | words: 1,738 | wpm: 212.7
chapters: 0:00 The Lore; 3:20 The Deck
tags: EDH, Commander, MTG, Magic the Gathering, Pako, Partner Commander, Magic, Deck

[0:00] &gt;&gt; It's confession time. I've been losing to the same deck since Seriously, my record against it is probably something like 0 to 12. And I didn't realize why until 6 years &gt;&gt; Every time I just wrote it off as RNG. But when it happened again just a few weeks ago, I realized what had occurred was all part of a sinister Hello, my name is Jin and obviously I'm the main character, the protagonist of my playgroup. But my friend Johnny, he's a bit like the knight on the chessboard. Doesn't stand out as much. You're not as worried about him, but once in a while he swoops in with some devastating decks and big brain plays that can do some serious damage.

[0:43] The prime example of this is his Pako and Haldan. They're a set of side commanders from precon C20 and let's just say they did not stand out. I mean, yes, things were slower back then, but we already got legends like Ayula, Uril, Kinnan, all these commander legend partners. Not to mention from the same deck, Kykar, the Raging Storm. All these cards that basically combo with themselves. And then we have these two idiots that take up two positions to do the job of one. See, I thought it would look more like this if the design team was competent and they weren't trying to force the partners mechanic, I thought. So, when Johnny first brought out this deck, I was not worried. I focused on my friend Alex who played much stronger partners in Jeskai and Tevesh.

[1:24] "Ah, we'll see what the dog exiles and then respond accordingly," I thought. Pretty quickly though, I found myself staring down a 12/12 with nine commander damage on me already. I died without even seeing Haldan get put on the stack and so did Alex. And then it happened several times in the months following. It just so happened the dog somehow lived long enough, we ignored it. I depleted my resources answering other bigger threats, I thought. Now, fast forward to 2026, just a few days ago Johnny brought this deck out But it's 2026, I have the newest tech with much better understanding of the game. No way I'm losing to this again. But then Johnny proceeded to destroy me with that same dog, but with a few new tricks.

[2:05] His split second protection spell blanked my two removal spells. He also had pump, extra combat, all that to kill me and the other players. And that was when I realized that this was never a steal deck. Or rather, it's both. His game plan is two parts and he almost never needed to go to part two. Start off with a Voltron matter that scales incredibly quickly, and if that fails, we fall back on the Halden plan with a dozen cards exiled. And I was wrong about another thing in that the steal and the use effect being on two different creatures is not a downside, but rather it allows the deck to start part two of his game plan without any commander tax, fresh. And the deck barely needs any support for Halden. All we really need is some consistent early game ramp, which is also helpful for powering out the five mana doggo.

[2:49] Aside from that, we'll just try to win the game with the spells we steal and maybe power the dog out for a few more hit and runs if it's not completely out of the picture. Now, that's a sweet deck. I've seen decks with two separate game plans, of course, but never is the Venn diagram so perfectly aligned. And even better, this deck can absolutely be built on a budget around $100 since there's no expensive core engine. The doggo is the engine. Commander centric. I'll include both lists down in the descriptions. Now, the list is mostly built as if we only have Paco as our commander with a little extra ramp. Okay, well, a lot of ramp. 21 pieces. Because we're probably not worried about running out of cards to use. Our only limit is mana. We've got all the classic ramp spells, but we're also playing these three.

[3:30] One, because they help us manipulate our top deck a little bit, but also because Halden allows us to play lands. So, in the late game, we can also make good use of the lands in So, ideally, we let the dog out on turn three or turn four with protection. Yeah, we need a lot of those as well, 14 pieces. Starting with an equipment in Conqueror's Flail. It takes a bit of setting up, but once it's equipped, our opponents have no choice but to watch what we're about to do to them. Teamwork gives us excellent variety from cheap counter spells to redirects to these protection pump effects. Also, a few of these interesting ones that give evasion. Yeah, now that we're getting some fetch triggers consistently, why not get some damage in as well? Evasion. Artful dodge is awesome. Wing boots is also a decent protection and trample.

[4:11] Rancor, scepter, and river cleaver. Oh, yeah, also Embercleave. Now, Embercleave doesn't just do evasion. The double strike can destroy some people. Yeah, double strike is good. We're also playing some of these double strike spells, but they have to do something else cuz they're a bit narrow. So, either can trip cycle or they come with an equipment or Inferno, which we can also use to copy something big later in the game. But, the best finishers are these extra combat cards because we're getting extra fetch triggers. We try to keep the cost down with seize the day, overpowering attack, and great train heist. We're also willing to splurge on mana, but these have to be game winning, and they are. Genji gloves, savage beating, and full throttle. Also, Moraug synergizes so well with our ramp spells, it's hard to exclude.

[4:52] Again, we don't need too much card draw. The doc should have that mostly covered, but some of these are really efficient. We I think they're worth playing. Hunter's insight, terrors and biosis can get us two to four cards a turn, and lightstream's blessing to recoup some life. Just a few pieces of miscellaneous utility. We're mostly relying on our opponents to provide us with answers, but us getting beat up while Paco charges in is a concern. So, I have Neheb, the Eternal Flame, and Chandra's ignition. Usually, these are a bit risky, but with the amount of protection we have, it's much more reliable and devastating. Meanwhile, constant mist is a ridiculous magic card. We don't need to be locking combat completely, but just a two or three turns of immunity at the cost of two lands is close to Teferi's protection level, if not And finally, just a few pieces that synergize with Haldan, passionate archaeologist, keeper of secrets, and Nafashni.

[5:39] These are not really necessary, but can lead to pretty fun plays, and they're especially helpful if we're staring down the one final opponent. For lands, the most important land for any deck like this one is Witch's Clinic. Imagine the clinic on a 10/10 doggo with Chandra's Ignition on the stack. That's the dream with protection spell backup, of course. Aside from that, we are prioritizing evasion, got to get the dog through, and protection in Talons Gate and Plaza of Heroes. The Kamigawa lands are nice because if we have use for them, we can just cast Helden and play a land from an opponent. So, there's that flexibility. Also, MDFCs the same thing, and of course, Alchemist's Refuge. The best land for any big mana deck is especially good here because in a pinch I can flash in Helden and immediately use anything from the exile piles.

[6:20] And that's the list. Again, what I love most about this deck is the two-part game plan. But, unlike most other decks with multiple game plans, we don't suffer from the wrong half problem. Everything we do is to push the dog for more hits, and late game Helden alone will take care of everything. It does have some problems, though, the most glaring one being, so if I send the dog to kill people fast, I lose their cards and Helden gets nerfed hard. That is true. However, this also kind of falls in line with how I prefer to play Voltron decks because depleting all your resources to kill one opponent fast, and the other two take you out after seeing what you are capable of, that's not fun. So, personally, I prefer leaning more on the value provided by our commander, and chipping on each opponent evenly. Only deliver the final blow when someone is clearly running away with the game, or when you have a solid plan to kill all three in quick succession.

[7:07] But, the truth is by late game, we should expect to only be able to use our own cards and maybe the resource of one opponent. So, we do have to figure out who to kill when we are presented with the option. The deck does require a lot of decision-making, especially when the fetch pile begins to build up. Say it's turn five, you're missing a land drop, do you cast Helden to get a land? Also, as mentioned earlier, which opponents to go for. The deck isn't as explosive as many other Voltron options, but the dog does catch some people by surprise. I rate it pretty high, though, for resilience, more than most other Voltron decks, at least, because they don't have a part two. We do. The deck's budget is fairly and it sits somewhere between bracket two and three. It's slightly slower than other Voltron decks, so it doesn't feel quite as oppressive.

[7:49] And Heldan's power level adjusts based on your opponents. And that's the deck. Again, deck lists are down below. I've been making a lot of deck lists and I plan to do more. But if there's something aside from deck list that you want me to talk about or cover, please leave a comment and let me know. Thank you for watching till the end. If you enjoy this kind of content, drop a like, and follow along for more content. Yeah, thanks. I'll see you later.
