# Why Your Budget Commander Deck is Better Than Their $10K Pile - Featuring Vivi Ornitier
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/S5aUTWMCqM4
date: 2025-05-18 | views: 12,455 | likes: 298 | comments: 100 | length: 6:49 | words: 1,262 | wpm: 185.9
chapters: 0:00 Budget vs expensive decks; 0:37 The problem with staples; 1:41 Building a synergistic deck; 2:55 Restriction breeds creativity; 4:24 Derevi token synergy case; 6:04 Conclusion on deck building
tags: #MTG #Commander #EDH #BudgetCommander #MagicTheGathering #FinalFantasy #ViviOrnitier

[0:00] Hello everyone. This is Jyn from Next Level Commander and today we are here to talk about why your budget commander decks will be stronger than the $20,000 decks with all the blings and black border duels and staples. And no, we're not talking about politics and threat assessment today, although that is definitely a part of the equation. The idea for this video stemmed from a conversation I had with my friend Jimmy. Jimmy was excited about the new Final Fantasy spoilers, but not the prices. But lately, this product is not for me. Vibes has been strong with Jimmy and also my entire group, which consists of a lot of folks who are either in school or still paying for it. Now, when I shared with him the spoiler of Vivie, his favorite Final Fantasy character, Jimmy was excited for a moment, but then he remarked, "Ah, is it spells?

[0:46] It's expensive, isn't it?" Yes, it can be. You open up the EDH wreck page and it gives you the storm build with expensive enablers like Jessica's will and interaction like Fierce Guardianship. As Magic players, it's natural for us to associate price with power level. And we strive to get these quote unquote most powerful cards for our decks, thus further increasing the prices and solidifying their stable status. I mean, thousands of people are playing it. It must be good. All right. Now, this echo chamber, feedback loop, whatever you want to call it, does greatly reduce the need for exploration and contemplation in our format, for better or for worse. Now, I'm not saying that these staple cards are not good. No, no. I mean, these staples will perform well whether your commander is Vive, Misix, or Sliver Overlord.

[1:32] But just because they are the most generically powerful choices across the format, doesn't mean they are actually the best card for your commander. Not always. Let's take a look at BB. The abilities immediately scream storm. The counter and the ping ability triggers this heristic in magic players and your mind immediately jumps to this face. Or maybe this monkey. But being financially responsible like Jimmy, he has to explore other options. After a closer look, it's not hard to see that the ability we should be building around is actually the first one. Mana equals power. Titan strength nets you four mana, three from the spell, one from the plus one counter. Brute force is another four.

[2:12] Monstrous rage gives you four more and you get to do some role playing. Now throw an unleash fury in there and the sky is the limit. Heck, if you can't find enough palm spells in red, we can also sprinkle in some blue ones like behind the mask. One mana plus 5 plus 4 or fleeting reflection for potentially a lot of power. But don't play too many of the blue ones because they don't stack well with each other. And now you find yourself sitting with 10 blue mana on turn four. H, what do we do with that? pull from tomorrow. Blue Sun, Zenith, Mindprint. Okay, it is still turn four and now we have 10 cards in hand and a 12 power commander. So, how do we win? Oh, yeah. We can just attack and throw in some protection spells and counter spells mostly to keep Vivv around and we have the deck.

[2:56] Vivv Voltron costs a little more than a precon, but the process of building it, actually thinking through what makes Vivv unique led to a more synergistic and satisfying deck. Being on a budget really forces us to think deeper about a commander and card selection. Meanwhile, I find a lot of players with slightly bigger budgets, myself included, to simply toss in the most popular card choices and be satisfied with them because I mean they're good cards and they will feel good to play. But are they really the best cards? Rather than playing cards that are, say, 70% synergistic with every commander, Jimmy has to look for cards that are 100% synergistic with his commander. Now, I'm not saying that players who pay don't think, but often times they are not forced to go a little further beneath the surface level.

[3:41] And you hear this from older players. They talk about how nowadays commanders becoming more and more like wizards build the deck for you and you just have to collect the cards. And there is some truth to that. The synergies are so obvious and on the nose that there's still room for creativity, but very little need. Whether it's budget or something else, restriction breeds creativity and growth. Now, Vivv is a fairly simple example, and I'm not saying that this is definitely more powerful than the storm build. It probably isn't. But here we are talking about the long run, the thinking, digging, and testing more unique strategies will give you a much deeper understanding of the format and its dynamics. What cards work and more importantly, why do they work?

[4:24] Let's take a look at another example, which is my friend Jack's Derevy deck. Now, if you open EDH of Derevy, immediately you see the likes of Voice of Victory, Birds of Paradise, Balloon Tender, Esper Sentinel, you're at close to $100 before you even cast Derevy. And these are not bad cards by any means, but looking at Derevy, it's a really powerful card. And these commanders tend to reward playing bad cards with 100% synergy more than good cards with 70% synergy. Jackstack had raised the alarm sapper in migration cloning around join the dense heck even the early days he had a fencing ace just to get the double untap trigger with these extremely low to the ground token makers he's able to throw in cheap enchantments like fertile ground and wild growth and generate a lot of mana but only during combat he used that mana to cast instant speed draw spells like thirst for knowledge and jay's ingenuity or even a large pole from tomorrow this mana and card advantage snowballs into more tokens and more mana which quickly overwhelms everyone with pawn spells like vitalizing wind or a

[5:28] welltimed mirror weave. Seriously, the snowballing is insane. I've seen him alchemist refuge into approach of the second sun into draw seven and approach again all during combat on turn six. Now this works because rather than playing cards that have obvious on the surface synergies with Derevy, he's created something more top down and holistic. Rather than individual cards, he came up with a game plan with cards all contributing to that plan. The entire deck costed around $40 and this DVI I can say with confidence will destroy most EDH wreck direct lists that are 10 times the price. To sum things up, I genuinely believe that commander is not paid to win.

[6:09] The better players and deck builders will always come out ahead. Commander is a format with nearly 30,000 legal cards. If we look past the fear of missing out on the best stables, we unlock what made this format so magical in the first place, creativity, exploration, and expression. So, thank you for watching. This is Next Level Commander, and I hope that through this channel, we can level up together to be better players and deck builders. So, please subscribe or send me your channel. I'll subscribe to you. Whatever works. I just want someone to talk to. All right. See you in the next
