# I (also) Built UUGGUU Wrong
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/Sh0WiJzPbk4
date: 2026-08-12 | views: 29,158 | likes: 1,112 | comments: 320 | length: 8:21 | words: 2,058 | wpm: 247.2
chapters: 0:00 Intro-spection; 0:44 What's people really care about; 1:12 The End-Game Ruling Mistake; 3:00 Possible Gameplans and "Why aren't you playing this card?"; 6:06 Sick Tech
tags: UUGGUU, mtg, commander, EDH, Ooze, Tribal, Rules, Tokens, Magic the Gathering, Mystery Commander

[0:00] Hello everyone. This is Chin with Next Level Commander. Who would have thought just two days after my very thorough and comprehensive video on Ugu, I have to make another to address the many little mistakes I made in the first video. Doing my best CD project writing impression over here. But also, I may or may not have gotten the rules wrong with my epic end game plan. Now, the endgame still works and it's still epic, but it's just a little bit different. But none of this is actually why I decided to make another video. The reason is because that first video had the most amazing comment section I've ever had the pleasure of reading and responding to and the number of sick tech that you guys brought up. I lost track of how many times I thought to myself, "Ah crap, how did I not think of that?" Yeah, there are definitely some sweet cards that I missed and I will address all of those here.

[0:43] Also, there are a lot of common questions, so those will be answered. But first, let's address the elephant in the room. The one that people really care about. Why is the card called Ugu and not Ugub? or why is the mana cost not blue green blue blue blue blue blue blue blue blue blue blue blue blue blue blue blue blue valid criticism but unfortunately as influential as I am there's not much I can do about this one however I urge you to write an angry negative review for Wizards of the Coast strike them where it hurts and they will remember for next time and now let's move on from Wizards of the Coast's incompetence to mine which is pretty negligible by comparison I only messed up the entire rules thing for the endame luckily I have these helpful commenters to correct me and now I know that when a clone copies Ugu and it dies the tokens I make will copy Ugus and I cannot choose new targets.

[1:24] So, our epic end game requires another step and that step is conspiracy effects. Actually, that was the original game plan. My first draft of the video had this, but then after playing a few games with the deck, I started second guessing. I thought maybe the clones can just make clone tokens on deck. I checked with a few friends and a judge and changed the video last minute. But now, I know with certainty that conspiracies are needed. I've always wanted to build decks with conspiracy, but it's very difficult because they warp your deck building and everything falls apart when you don't have one. But in this deck, the payoff is massive compared to the relatively low opportunity cost. So, how does it work? Well, let's say I have a conspiracy. Actually, I ended up cutting conspiracy. So, let's use Arcan adaptation.

[2:04] So, with that and a few ugles on the field, now I can play any of my clones, but not copy anything. So, the clone will die as a zero zero ooze. And when it does, each ugu on the field will create two copies of the clone, which then I can use to copy anything. Be it Ellish Norins, Hawkeye Tyrants, or even just more Ugus. But yeah, that's the plan. So, I started with five conspiracy effects, but I've since dropped it down to three because we have enough draw power. And also, we don't want this in the early game. I do think three is enough. And I also decided to swap one of them for march of the world boots after seeing quintentions comment because not only does it enable our shenanigans, it also turns the ug six sixes which then we can just use to beat people down. The other two I chose are Arcane Adaptation and Masswood Nexus just because they're the cheapest ones in terms of mana cost.

[2:49] So yeah, that's our end game. It doesn't have to work every time cuz a lot of the games you can just win with Ugu Beatdown. Just by looping clone three times, you already have a lethal number of two twos. Four times and you're killing the entire table. Okay, so that's settled. Just to address another mistake I made in the first video with World of Invention. It does not have convoke. It has improvise which does not work with this deck. I'm replacing it with court of calling. It has fewer targets, but convoke is so good here because your ugu tokens are ug. So most of the convoke spells are free. I decided to add another one in transcendent message, but if you want to go even deeper, there's all kinds of utility you can find with convoke. A really interesting line I found involves hoarding brood lord. Then a decent board, you can cast it pretty much for free. You search for arcane adaptation, drop that with convoke, and now you sack the brood lord, which is now in ooze, and now every ugu on the field will create for you two tokens of the brood lord, which you can then use to tutor for more clones for anything really.

[3:39] Yeah, you go infinite from there. That's actually such a sweet line, but why am I not doing it? Well, this is where we address a lot of the questions. Why aren't you playing this? Why aren't you playing that? And a lot of them are like amazing suggestions, wonderful cards, starting with, for example, Crater Hoof. Yeah, why am I not playing Crater Hoof? Well, the reason is because Ugu actually ticks so many boxes in terms of synergy and there's so many directions you can take. A lot of the best windcons in these colors Ugu can use, whether it's combo or tokens. Food chain, for example, that goes off very easily with Ugu. But the reason I'm not jamming all of them into the deck is because we want to keep the deck consistent. Like we want to keep the core strong. When you have the core with clones and undying effects, you can create Ugus consistently. You can win with whatever you want, but you don't want to dilute that core.

[4:20] you can probably still win the game if you draw a bunch of clones and undying effects but none of the fancy wind conditions. On the flip side, if you draw a bunch of these mass pump effects or combo pieces, but not enough of our engine, your game is not going to go well. So, we keep it low to the ground. And for wind condition, I'm only going with these conspiracy effects because this is a play pattern that is unique to this deck. And it sounds like such a blast, doesn't it? Yeah, I would look forward to doing this every time I pick up Ugu, but I can't say the same about Critter Hoof. With that said, I'm going to go over some of the directions we can take and you can pick and choose whichever one speaks to you. Starting with tokens and sacrifice. I'm sure you're familiar with this, but any of the blood artist effects can win games, but you will need to go a bit heavier on sack outlets. Then you get to abuse cards like grave pack, parallel lives, all that good stuff, but Ian Verdine brought up the best one, Mirwood bats.

[5:02] This and a few clones, and the game is over, so that works. On the other hand, we can also focus more on tribal synergies. We already have cards like that. For example, harmonized crescendo and three Tree City, but the one I missed is Skimar Shadow Mage as mentioned by Jane Kosovisk. I'm sure there are lots of other tribal cards that I can also use. Let me know in the comments if after all this I'm still missing some heavy hitters. And after this we have devotion because once again every token has a mana cost. Yeah, we're definitely playing Nthos, but we can also play a lot of these if you want to. Imagine winning with Thasa's Oracle in the fairway. That would be such a flex. Also, of course, we have Grey Merchant. Even aspect of the Hydra, you can probably commander damage someone with that. And we are getting spicier and spicier. Now, now I'm I'm not sure if I should be doing this.

[5:42] We are treading into another dangerous territory in terms of rules, and that is mutate. Now, if you mutate onto Ugu and place the mutate card on the bottom, Ugu will remain in ooze, but also gain the card's ability, which can then be copied. This is relevant for cards like Sea Dasher Octopus and Parcel Beast. But yeah, these are just a few examples of things we can do. There are tons more awaiting your exploration. But before that, I also want to address some of the sweet tech that are being suggested. The first one is Prime Speaker Vanifar. Yes, with this I won't be able to do my clickbay title, but it actually makes so much sense here. I play her. I sacrifice her into however many copies of herself. And once I untap, I get to pod all the Ugus. Conveniently, all the Ugus, even the token copies, are three mana value, and most of our clones are four.

[6:26] If you do include this, I would recommend also including something like the Superior Spider-Man and a body double for more looping shenanigans. Another one is Soul Stone Sanctuary. Now, this one I just forgot about cuz Mutavolt has amazing synergy with the deck. You can turn it on, sacrifice it, or even just do it in response to a board wipe, and you get a bunch of Mutiva tokens for future use. I also looked at Faceless Haven, but unfortunately the snow mana is a bit rough. But then Soulstone Sanctuary, even with a four mana activation cost, is well worth the upside. So definitely put that in. And similarly, Corrupted Zendicon. Yeah, how deep is that? Put that onto any land, sacrifice it, and boom, you are set for mana for the rest of the game. Or if you don't have a sack outlet, put it onto a fetch land. I added a few more fetch lands for this. Although, do keep in mind you actually have to fetch the tokens as well.

[7:07] So you're limited by your life total and also how many lands you have in the deck. But it's it's still pretty good. Next up, Mirror of the Four Beers. It's a card that I just completely forgot about. I don't usually use it anywhere, but here it makes a lot of sense cuz it's like a clone that you can drop early and you can reuse it. Just keep targeting Ugu and it will have the same effect as a clone except you can keep it on the board as a sack outlet. And finally, I don't know how I missed this. It's one of my favorite cards in all of Magic. Mirror form. Yeah, this can be anything. Wind condition, like in response to a board wipe, turn all your Ugus into lands or if there's something nice to copy on the field, like say a koku show. This is basically like an overrun effect, right? You can turn your oozes into something huge and you can do some clone shenanigans. So, in the late game, it's like the effects of March of the World ooze and a clone on one card.

[7:49] Yeah, that's pretty sweet. And that wraps up part two of Ugu, the electric boou. Um, Bugulu. Anyways, do check out the deck list. I made a budget version. I also included the regular version at full power. I will constantly update them and I'm 100% sure that even now I there are a lot of interactions and a lot of sick tech that I still don't know about. But anyways, this is Jin with Next Level Commander. I am building a lot more decks from this set. Also, Hobbit. So if you enjoy this kind of content, like and subscribe and I will see you in the next
