# Building Every Single Final Fantasy Commander (Part 1 of 2: Multicolored)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/sMjPgYq_un8
date: 2025-06-08 | views: 501 | likes: 17 | comments: 9 | length: 7:13:04 | words: 48,594 | wpm: 112.2
chapters: 0:00 <Untitled Chapter 1>; 1:13 Ultima, Origin of Oblivion; 6:57 Sin, Spira’s Punishment; 14:15 Choco, Seeker or Paradise; 20:13 Kefka, Court Mage; 32:42 Noctis, Prince of Lucis; 45:47 Ignis Scientia; 49:40 Omega, Heartless Evolution; 58:44 The Wandering Minstrel; 1:06:56 Cloud, Planet’s Champion; 1:16:30 Giott, King of the Dwarves; 1:27:49 Joshua, Phoenix’s Dominant; 1:35:52 Lightning, Army of One; 1:47:49 Zidane, Tantalus Thief; 2:31:56 Cloud of Darkness; 2:37:08 Exdeath, Void Warlock; 2:43:41 Jenova, Ancient Calamity; 2:56:36 Shantotto, Tactician Magician; 3:03:25 Tellah, Great Sage; 3:18:13 The Emperor of Palamecia; 3:34:03 Vivi Ornitier; 3:37:18 Judge Magister Gabranth; 3:41:10 Rufus Shinra; 3:43:14 Squall, SeeD Mercenary; 3:54:12 Garnet, Princess of Alexandria; 3:59:20 Rinoa Heartilly; 4:06:05 Serah Farron; 4:10:55 Yuna, Hope of Spira; 4:16:36 Balthier and Fran; 4:32:09 Gladiolus Amicitia; 4:39:54 Rydia, Summoner of Mist; 4:48:02 Terra, Magical Adept; 4:54:27 Black Waltz No.3; 5:03:40 Garland, Knight of Cornelia; 5:13:02 Kuja, Genome Sorcerer; 5:19:10 Emet-Selch, Unsundered; 5:29:18 Golbez, Crystal Collector; 5:38:00 Locke Cole; 5:48:53 Sephiroth, Planet’s Heir; 6:01:49 Ultimecia, Time Sorceress; 6:12:43 Xande Dark Mage; 6:19:20 Absolute Virtue; 6:35:23 Cid, Timeless Artificier; 6:49:16 Hope Esthiem; 7:01:41 Tidus, Blitzball Star

[0:00] Hello everyone, welcome to Next Level Commander. This is Jin and today we're doing something massive. We're going to look at not one, not two, all 99 Final Fantasy commanders. And we're going to do two things. First, we're going to try to build a deck around it. Maybe not an entire deck, but we'll brainstorm an idea. We'll try to do something unique, something interesting for each legendary creature. And we will make a skeleton, right? We'll put some cards into this architect file, architect list. and like the key cards, the direction we're taking it to give you a rough idea. And the second thing I'm going to do is because I'm not super familiar with Final Fantasy. I've played Final Fantasy Tactics when I was like 15 and also recently I tried Final Fantasy 7 remastered for about 10 15 hours and that is the extent of my knowledge.

[0:49] I didn't go any further. So based on that, this is a top- down set. I'm going to try to guess what these characters do and who they are, what their perk is. And we're starting with color multiolor just because it's easier. I saw some really interesting strange ones in mono colored. I'm not looking forward to building those, but we'll start easy and we'll work our way up. It seems like they put colorless first. So, we'll start with that. Ultima. Ultima. Okay. I mean, this guy is like a mutant thing. four arms like kind of Esper from Charzelara vibes almost Tesarette vibes. He's Oh, he's a god. Okay. Well, yeah, this guy's definitely like a final final boss kind of thing.

[1:32] The kind of boss is not coming to you. You're going to him and you probably have to traverse through this dungeon where he lives cave and the cave somehow has perfect lighting. Seems like yeah like he extends his domain with whatever like alrazi do and I'm guessing crystals because that's the thing. Yeah. And what the ability the first ability seems interesting but I don't think we can build around it. You put a blight counter becomes it loses all abilities is nonbasic land but it's too slow. The commander is five mana and it happens once a turn. So we are not going to build around that unfortunately.

[2:13] We have to build around double mana doubling. I said unfortunately because once you go this path in colorless as far as I know there are only two ways to do it. Alrazi or artifacts. And big mana I'm guessing it's aldrazzi. But but I'm going to try artifacts. I'll see if there's enough mana sync in artifacts for it to to make it work because what turn five this turn six we're going to have 12 mana ideally. So, I'm going to skyfall for mana sync in colorless. I'm not sure this is a thing to be honest. Mana sync. Whoops. Oh, does Oh, it works.

[2:55] Does it? Nope. Does not work. Although, I learned something about Skyfall is that if you It's something that feels searchable. something that is a common term in magic and you don't know the same text you just you just Google scrifall mana sync it works look at that mana sync okay tag oracle tag does it work yeah these are mana syncs and then I have to combine these with colorless right so wait not here not here uh back colorless mana sync this should do what?

[3:35] What did I do? No, nice. Although it didn't do color identity, but it's okay. Resort by EDH rank. I find this to be so useful. It's more useful, I think, than looking at EDH rank, but we'll see. Uh, never mind. We have to go for colorless identity, otherwise we'll have too many random trap. Okay. Then put that in sort by ADH rank. Okay, there you go. Lots of lands.

[4:16] Sure. Walking ballista. Four mana up to counter. Mana sync. Mana sync. Oh, staff of domination. Okay. Dark depths. Yeah, I don't think we have enough. So, we're just doing a drawing, which is fun. We're going to search like this colorless something big. So, a a a a not a value greater than seven. Let's go. We can do Aladdin tribal.

[4:56] Nope. Yeah, artisan. Okay, because your commander is five mana, we're not going to we need to ramp into it, right? We need to play lots of mana rocks. So, Kazzle is key here for refilling our hand. Yeah, seems like as a popular Ugan, of course. I mean, I mean, all of these are going in. All these are going in. Ulamog, I'm just putting in the key cards for now. The Kaik I think is super Um, anything any other big mana? Yeah, sure. Rise of the outrage. Yeah, you get idea. And after that, he's a god. Do you have any synergy?

[5:38] I can't think of any synergy with god or Yeah. So, just some mana rocks, you know, uh, like so raring here. I will search for mana rocks just so we have a complete skeleton of the deck. Boom. Add as well. All I'm going to say add and then color. Oh, it's going to be land. We don't want land. Land. Not Why?

[6:20] Oh, we don't want we don't want So ringing not aren signate not thought vessel mstone sure metry. Nope. Throw dynamo. Yeah this is basically I don't want to spend too much time on this because seems like I mean people enjoy colorless and this is definitely a viable commander but it's not nothing too unique that we're doing. So what we'll do here we'll select all. We'll add this into a new category called Ultima. This will do. Moving on. Sin spy rust Sin.

[7:02] See, a lot of the Final Fantasy names are super on the nose. So, it's like you mean this feels like some ancient force of nature kind of thing. Not necessarily evil, but you have to fight it probably because of plot And yeah, it's probably the seems like one of the biggest creatures by the art. Leviathan avatar. Holy crap. Flying. Whenever interest or attacks, ex exile permanent card from your graveyard at random. Then create a tap token that is a copy of that card and it stops when you exile a land. So you want to dump cards into your graveyard because this guy is not coming down. This is like the finisher, right?

[7:43] So your entire early game will be setting up for this guy and then boom, sin comes down. You have a massive board. But the problem is if you mill yourself, you still have to do graveyard hate too. So self mill graveyard hate. So you can, you know, remove all the lands from the graveyard. I guess one way to do it is to play those return all lands cards, but there's like two of them. Another way is to play looters. Maybe we can do looter tribal because we have a lot of lutters to set up for sin and then of course ramp and boom sin comes down. Okay, we'll try that. We'll try that.

[8:24] Makes sense. Okay, so we are doing how do we draw search for looter? We search for draw discard I'm guessing. draw and discard a card, right? Lutters don't loot for more than one usually. pipeline anything. Well, we will avoid instances sources for now. Only prominence. We want repeatable ones. So, not not and it has to be within sins colors. Oops. identity is Necropotence Yoth Crater.

[9:12] Good. Wait, this one discards. Oh, this is like a He's like a looter. It's like a looter. Yeah, I like it. I like it. You know what? Sweet. It's a cool card. And it also seems to be Yeah, they seem like decent friends, right? They probably live live in a swamp together. Yeah, cool. Neighbors maybe pretend to like each other, but secretly plotting to consume each other. Nezahal and sin loot ran. We'll skip it for now. We're skipping for now. Ghostly piler. Yeah, this is good. Fra. Sure. This also ramps us into sin.

[9:54] Yeah, you can stack treasures into sin. Discard a card trading post. Is that worth it? Stack an artifact. Not really. Cafari. Yeah, Cafari loots every turn. That's sweet. It's like a triple quadruple looter. Jason's archavist. That's looting for too much. We don't want to do this again because we don't want lands in the graveyard. I'm starting to work. Are there actually enough good looters? I mean, this this one is great. Um, whenever you discard a creep. Okay. Payoff for discarding. We have a deck. Yeah, we have a deck here. Definitely.

[10:37] Um, is that it? Nope. We've got more. Psychic frog. Yeah, seems good. Bag of holding. No, absolutely not. It exiles your discards. Oh, but it's You may This one is You may though. Two mana. Draw a card. Discard a card. Put a card exiled into your graveyard. If it's a land card, create. It's not terrible. I do think we uh we can't really be picky here. How many is it now? We have 13. Maybe 10 lutters. A few more. Sure. Just the lutters. Overlord.

[11:18] Yeah, it's fine. It's fine. I like it so far. I like it so far. Three mana. Sure. Yeah. And once we do that, we want big permanence, right? Let's look at sin again. We want create a tap token. That is tapped token. That's copy of the card interest or attacks. So, I think we just play the biggest permanence honestly because we can discard them anyways. So we don't have to play like responsibly. We don't have to care about the curve too much. We got these ones. So we're going to search for the biggest splashiest permanence in since colors. I like it.

[11:58] It's like a mass reanimation deck. Uh where's mana cost greater than? Let's go six. And if you want to go thematic, you can play Leviathans, right? Because with this deck, it doesn't really matter what fatties you play. You can play the fatties to adjust the power level. If you want something higher power, sure, you can play the good stuff like Avenger Crater Crater. No, they entertapped, right? Once again, they intertapped. Yeah. So, we're not going to Alpha Strike. And I like I like that because otherwise it's just a combo, right? It's not super interesting. The game will end.

[12:39] Does it Wait, does it say Yeah. Top token. Okay. And then go to shield. Absolutely. I like shield. Novel. Sure. Yeah. This is again personal preference. Mahalo is in coslet can't be mil. Triple mana. Do we need? Not really. Car draw. Emissions. Sure. You know all these stuffs. Yep. And what else do we need? We need some ramp. We need to ramp uh Sin out. Do we play the typical ramp? Sin doesn't care about instances sorceries.

[13:21] Yeah. So, we can just play the typical ramp cards. Cultivate Reach. Webp. Yeah, super useful. Wait, did I speak to her? Oh, it's fine. I was just surprised the first card was blue for some reason. Oh, speaking of Speaking of, there's a card we need. It's called It's called um Dreamscape Artist. Dreamscape Artist. Yeah, this is like the perfect card for this deck. Discarding every card in your hand becomes hero.

[14:02] We want Cultivate Kama. Why is Kodama so much lower? And we have a deck. We have a skele skeleton. All right, moving on to the next legendary Choco, Seeker of Paradise. This is the mascot, right? Has to be the Wait, but this is the mascot. This is vehicle because I remember in Final Fantasy Tactics like they had this attack where they had just a line of choco balls rushing and then it's like terrifying because it's really powerful and a bird whenever one or more birds you control attack look at that many cards from the top of your library.

[14:47] Yeah. So he must be like a tribal thing where they they never probably never show up in once, right? Even though There's one that is like the part of the main squad, but they always call it to each other, right? Except like there's this special one. It's like what's that Pokemon? I forgot the name, but it's like the the special one is alone, but every other Choco you see, they will come in swarms is my guess. Uh they play you put one into your hand, then put any number of lands coming tapped. Okay, so bird and landfall whenever land you control enters choco gets plus one plus O.

[15:30] Now this ability is not strong. We yeah I don't know it's like a trap. Some people may be misled to build build landfall but just plus one plus O is might as well be nothing. So, we're building bird tribal and we're hoping that bird tribal has some synergy or has some interaction that we can also build around that. But if there's nothing, then we are we have to do landfall because once we have enough birds, we're landfalling maybe two, three times a turn. We'll see. We'll search for them birds. Event search bird.

[16:10] Yeah, this is the kind of deck that's super straightforward. I can't think of anything that we can do that's unique. Yeah, it's even when you attack. Not even ETB. All right. View name. Birds of paradise. I should put this in for Oh, first I have to change this to what's the name again? Sin. Yes. And now Choco comes in. And Birds of Paradise, of course. Did I forget to do color? I did.

[16:51] So, we have to change that. Boom. Boom. Boom. I don't Bird. B bird tribal in Final Fantasy cares about lands, but I don't think the majority of the cards we have will care about lands. Okay. Legend fighter. We'll put in all the good ones. Sure, because we want a low curve, right? We want to be able to attack. Yeah, we want to be able to attack early because Choco doesn't care about itself attacking. Throwing throwing birds proliferate probably not mocking bird. T-sh right now there's no co cohesive theme aside from flying.

[17:34] So wait from anywhere other than your hand. Vega, this is not happening. We don't cast spells from our No, we don't. Great card. A interrupter. Great card. Aerial Extortionist. Whoops. Whoops. DVI. Great card. Goose mother. Yeah, we are not we are not going to have much of a theme. We will see about we'll see about building around creatures with flying. So or building around creatures with flying or creature with flying.

[18:16] Let's see if that gives us anything. Attap all creatures without flying. That's something. I know. I know. We play moat. That is not a game changanger, is it? It's a wallet changer. A boilos No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Yeah, this is a bit too broad. I I guess creatures for flying. Get Get Nope.

[19:03] I guess we're doing landfall, but we're not going to play the land like skew swarm, are we? Yeah, we still have to win through flying. I'll try again. I'll try again. uh creatures with get or we need to quotation mark these. I think this is if this fails. I don't think well keep trying but okay. Yeah, it seems fairly clear what we're doing here. If you want, you can again do some landfall shenanigans because you're getting two or three lands consistently, but then you're building like two different decks, birds and lands.

[19:48] There's very little interaction between each other aside from your commander. So, I want to just go with flying and try to find cards. Like the one I can think of is the gravitation gravitational shift. There you go. This kind of stuff. let's let's select Choco. Next up, oh, this is sick. Kevfka have our first transform card. Kevka, Court Mage. This guy seems like the Joker. I know he's special because I've seen the name a lot. Like when you know, you don't see the same character twice unless it's a special character.

[20:30] And Kefka is like the Joker in Final Fantasy except less complex. I know he has a tower and the tower probably has no stairs, just um just teleportation circles. And he probably has a clown themed like a circus themed crew. Super on the nose and all the clown tropes. When Kelvka enters or attacks, each player discards a card. Then you draw a card for each card type among cards discarded this way. And then eight mana. Each opponent sacrifice a permanent transform as sorcery. We'll see what the back does. But this is way too expensive.

[21:12] Kevkar, ruler of ruin. The end draws near. All right. This is cool. Avatar wizard. Wow. Yeah. the kind of final boss that like at first he's trying to be super tricky and sneaky and doing all these cool, you know, show off things and then he realizes, okay, this I might die and then he just gives up all that bull crap and goes in with raw power brute force. Yeah, whenever an opponent loses life during your turn, you draw that many cards. This is super powerful. Wow. So, lightning bolt draws you three cards, but I don't think it's possible to build around this just because I mean five mana plus eight at sorcery speed and the front side and the back side there not isn't necessarily any synergy.

[22:02] So, I think we're going for Yeah, I think we're going to go for building around the front side. And this is so powerful. Each trigger is like you're drawing two, three cards. I think we're Yeah, I think we're just going to go Kefka Blink. Kefka clone and blink. And we're going to draw more clones and more blink. And then you ramp so that eventually you can clone and blink it twice, three times a turn. And eventually your opponents run out of cards. That's when you transform him. We do need maybe some link conditions, but for now I think we we have a we have a deck.

[22:42] So, uh yeah, just all the blink cards. Exile return. And they're all blue, I believe. So, I'm just not going to search for any color. So, I'll return. Yeah, let's try Yes. Displacer kitten. Yes. Ghostly flicker. Oops. Oops. Whoops. Near. Thasa. Yes. Thosa. We have a blink deck here.

[23:22] Essence flux. Dead eye. Sure. Yeah, you get the idea. And then once we blink, we can also play the red clone copy target creature. Those also work as blink. Uh they trigger the ETB, not as blink, I mean, but they trigger the ETB. That's all we need. Hey, hey, EK Shrek dual caster mage. I guess this is a cool blink payoff. Are we doing just full on blink for now? I want to do do Kefka. Build around Kefka. But we'll see after that what else we can do.

[24:05] This is This is good. Yeah. Making copies. Yeah, seems good. Okay. So now that we have all these blink, we have all these kev cut triggers, we have to do discard, right? Whenever whenever opponent. Yeah, discard. Basically the necusar package kind of. And uh boom boom. Just kai. Not just kai. Grixes. Grixes. My apologies.

[24:48] sort something like what's it called? There's this artifact format artifact. Forgot the name, but yeah. Yo, this kind Yeah. Arch faint. How good is this? The internet is a bit slow. Maybe I have to go adjust it somehow. see. Okay, we good. Whatever. Yeah, waste not. Of course. Tur grid. Where's Tur grid? Has to be in here. Tur grid. Is that a game changer? We'll see.

[25:29] Oh, yeah. This one doesn't show because I didn't choose commander because if I choose commander for this deck, it will what's it called? It will highlight everything red. So I I think target is a game changanger, but whatever. We'll build first. Discard, discard, discard, discard. Yeah, there you go. Guess Grimro, that's the card I was talking about. So now we have all these payoff. How do we win the game? Do we have the rack effects? Is it called the rack where if an opponent has less card in hand?

[26:09] I'm not going to take out I'm going to take out n. Can that win the game? Those are usually super slow, so I might not include them. I might have to find a different way. Banditis Talon each card. Two cards. A few cards in hand. Yeah, I don't think this is too good. Wait, what about the rack? I'll search for the rack. The rack.

[26:51] got the name wrong. Oh, there. I didn't I didn't choose an opponent. Yeah, we're not doing that. So then looks like we'll have to win with the backside, right? How does the front side win? Four, five. The backside also doesn't win too much. Or maybe we need a few blink targets because the backside you need to play pump spells and the pump spell will draw you more cards into more pump spells. But that kind of dilutes our game plan a little bit too much. So maybe we just win. We control the game, drop on the cards, and in the end we win with some ETB creatures, blinking ETB creatures.

[27:31] So enters the battlefield. We'll see. the battle. I think this is this is enough. Oh, forgot to do colors. Greater than six, let's Oops. Yeah. Primor. Yeah, this is the kind of stuff we're talking about. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Never mind. Blink. We can just steal from our opponents.

[28:14] I like that more. Yeah, I like that more because blink is kind of boring. It's like a different archetype. If we just blink Kevka a bunch and then we reanimate from Yo. Yeah, I like this idea because also at the same time those reanimation spells can serve as blink as long as we have sack outlets in lands. Okay, that that's a much much better idea. I'm glad the first one was support. Okay, so what we're doing here, we are finding return graveyard. Return from graveyard and doesn't have to be a search and uh oh I I have a CMC regular uh restriction.

[29:09] My apologies. No CMC, no value. I want to return from any gra. So none of these. What happened to reanimate? Oh yeah. Oh, they don't say return. That's tricky. creature. Creature creature battlefield.

[29:52] This has to Oh, sorry. Creature graveyard battlefield. Creature battlefield. Okay. Afterlife from the lone. And there you go. There you go. Animate dead. Victimize. No. Living death. Nope. Rise from the dark realms. Yes. You get the necromancy. Yes. You get the idea. And you can also steal spells from opponents.

[30:32] I guess we are in the perfect color for that. Uh like the Louisian Yep. And there's a card I like a lot. It's from Shadow War. It's four mana. You can straight up just cast a spell from opponent opponent's graveyard and it's instant. So I will search for it. Instant search uh graveyard. Graveyard Instant Sorcery. This should do. Uh, there's a few.

[31:14] There's a few. Oh, there you go. Memory Plunder. This is the one I'm looking for. You may cast target instant sorcery cards from your opponent's graveyard. And this is your win condition. You know, this deck looks really fun and powerful. We also need lots of ramp, of course, because Kevka is five mana and we will not be short on cards. We'll be drawing a lot of cards as soon as we get Kevka down. For commanders that can ref uh refill your hand, you don't mind being greedy with rep. So, all the all the mana rocks. I'll just add a few.

[31:57] soaring all these. Sure. Sure. We don't mind the three mana rocks just because um wait what happened? Why are they not working? And then uh yeah, all the sickness. Why not? just to get an idea. Okay, this deck looks sweet. I would want to play this deck. Not sure if it's fun to play against, but you know, you have friends and then you have really close friends that you don't mind doing this to. Select all. Go to Kevka.

[32:42] up, Noctis, prince of Lucus. This is like the Yeah, this guy seems like the the mirror version of our main character, right? Super cold, aloof, doesn't care about anything with this hair. It's like who I imagined myself to be when I was in grade seven. Yeah, lots of weapons. probably speaks more to his weapons than people. So, lifelink, you may cast artifact spells from your grave. Oh, artificer. Yeah, of course. Paying three life in addition to paying their other costs. If you cast a spell this way, the artifact interest with a finality counter on it.

[33:27] So, you're returning out of artifacts from graveyard. And there's no one a turn restriction. The restriction is life. But life we can work around, we can get around. So I think this is the deck for artifacts because if you're playing big artifacts, you can just do chroom. There are tons of other options and you have to cast them, right? I'm thinking this is the deck for artificer intuition. You'll see what I Artificers intuition. This is a survival of the fittest for trinkets.

[34:10] Discard an artifact. Search an search for an artifact with one CMC. So, you can keep chaining those. Like you can activate it three, four times and then cast them all from your graveyard. Now, the only thing is we have to see what the small artifacts look like if they're good enough. But for now, I we're going to try we're going to try we'll try the small artifacts. the artifacts that can crack themselves so you can get double value. It's almost like eggs second breakfast, but we're not playing second breakfast because maybe we can play Second Breakfast. We'll see. We'll see. Okay, so now we're searching for artifacts that are one CMC.

[35:01] Yeah. artifact one mana value equal to one Whoops. I have to restrict the color to blue black asper. Why? What's wrong with this color? Oh, sorry. Color identity. Wait, first bobble. Of course, that reminds me there's a card called Salvaging Station.

[35:42] I'll see if that if that works here. Yep. Salvaging Station here. Return target non-creature artifact card with converted mana cost one or less from your graveyard to play. Whenever whenever creature is put into graveyard from play, you may untap. So whenever you kill a creature, we'll have to hold it here. We'll see what the trinkets do. If they're able to kill creatures, I doubt it. But if not, we don't have an enabler for this. But here are the trinkets. That's for sure. We'll see. Uh this is the kind of stuff. Yeah. map. Graveyard hate. Yes.

[36:23] Gingerbrook? No, probably not. Uh, do we want to mill each Oh, each opponent. No, we don't. What about where are the bobbles? Okay, codeex rer is great. A vexing bobble, sure. Draws you a card. Yeah, all the ones that draw you a card are fine. Ether spell bomb, sure. What does the stone do? Oh, that's a good one. Star. Sure. We are playing eggs. Yeah, we're playing eggs. The only problem though is they cost life to do.

[37:03] So, we have to figure out ways to gain life. But basically, right now, we we can get a full board of artifacts fairly easily and we'll have to work with that. Yeah, this I How is this one so low? It's like the best one. My house spell we don't want relic can pretend this but traveler's amulet is fine. This card a card create a food but good this one is good. Wait this one is decent because it gains you life and n but food costs too much mana to crack. We'll see if we're desperate for life. We'll come back.

[37:45] Yeah. So we have kind of an eggs package and then we need payoffs and what the payoff will be is for each artifact you control something like that. So we will search for that for each or each artifact you control. See where see what we can get. Why CMC? Oh, CMC.

[38:27] Okay, now it should be good. How can I just default wreck by EDH? I I maybe we can do that. Or is this your artifact make? Yeah. Yeah, that's a game changer. But we'll see. We'll put it in for now. Equipped plus one for each artifact. Can our commander go Voltron? He's got Okay. You know what? Seems decent. Whenever one or more artifact artifact creatures enter the Nope.

[39:10] Nope. Oh, yeah. This is the payoff, right? It's like every all my artifacts are full force flying. Yeah, we can alpha strike create a white gnome. Each artifact in the main phase, you tap five untapped artifacts. Okay, this seems like the cast artifact use mana produced by bra. You white gnome soldier. Uh, but it only happens once a turn. I still think it's Yeah, I still think it's good. Still think it's good. plating. Cranial plate. I think it's fine.

[39:56] Horizon shine. Yes. Yeah. This is the Yeah, this is the kind of ability I want. Tesarette, master of the bridge, deals X damage to each opponent while X is the number of artifacts you control. You gain one life. Beautiful. You gain X life. Sorry. Whenever an artifact N cost one last to cast, reveal cards until you get an artifact, create to whenever you cast an artifact spell. Yeah, this is the kind again, this is the kind of payoff we want.

[40:37] Okay, we have a deck. We have a deck. We have payoff. We have engine payoff. And yes, yes, yes, yes. Za Öza, chief Karm. Okay. So, we'll stop here. And yes, we're going to need some life gain. Need some life gain. So, how we're going to do it is I think artifact. Oops. Whoops. What did I do? What did I do? Sorry. Artifact gain life.

[41:25] I remember there being an angel. That's super good. Why are these We're not searching for trinkets. Don't give me trinkets. Staff of Domination, Elixir of Immortality, Trading Post. I mean, I'm discarding a card just to play it from the graveyard for three life and then I gain four life out of it. No, no. Ether Flux. Yes. I mean it's again the the 50 damage ability is getting more and more awkward just because again it's 50 life and also because of deflecting squat is everywhere now.

[42:07] So but the life gain is super relevant. Avengers sphere. Why Sure. Uh but we need more life gain. Life gang. We got this already. We Tesarette. Lambus. What does Lambbus do? Wait, it's shuffle. No. Does this gain life? Nope. Is that all? No, there's the angel. Even though the name is called angel. Also, salvation station is probably not going to work just because we don't have the enters the battlefield.

[42:58] Yeah, this is massive life gain. And also, I think we need just some straight up life gain like uh one of my favorite cards. This is awkward. I forgot the name of my favorite card. It's called Archangel. Please be right. It is right. Wrestle Archangel. When it enters, my life goes back to 40. Need it. Is this the deck for Thought Foundry? I think it is. I think it is because you gain a life and it's just Yeah. It's just value. Yeah. Yeah. Again, this is the kind of payoff. Beautiful.

[43:39] I'm sure there's more. There's more what we're doing here. Like the one with affinity for artifact. What's it called? Monitor something. Monitor. I think there 13 of them. The one with flying three uh draws you two cards when it enters. Thought monitor. There you go. Oops. But there's one more card. That's it. Tainted Sigil. Yeah, you sacrifice tainted sigil. You gain life equal to the to life total life lost by all players this turn. So what you do is you can, you know, cast a bunch of artifacts, cast this, sack it to gain, say 21 life, and then you can cast it again, pay three more life, and then gain 24 more life.

[44:26] Yeah, this will just double your life total. Not double, but double the loss and then gain that back. So, seems really good. Then lastly, we're going to look for some second breakfast cards. Second sunrise. And what's the other one? Faith something. Second sunrise. Sure. Faith something. Faith renewed. Faith's reward. Yes. Beautiful. Just a few just to see. Yeah, we have a This is deck looks really fun to And we are 47 minutes in.

[45:12] Holy crap. How many decks do we have? Five decks. 47 minutes in. Okay. I I mean, I'm going a little bit deep with these, but I'll try to maybe have a label for all the decks so that you can skip to the deck you want to see. But for now, if you watched all the way to here, thank you. And if you're still awake, you should be falling asleep to this probably. So we are doing select all and put them put them all into Noctis. Noctis next Ignis Scientia. This is the nerd.

[45:53] And what's what does he do? He enters look at the top six cards of your library. Put a land card. Okay. So this is like a a mana rep, a meta elf in commando. That's good. And then the ability says he's cooking. Exile higher card from graveyard. If a creature card was exiled this way, create. Oh, this is terrible. How? So it's graveyard hay for three mana and then you make a food that you can crack for two mana to gain three life. Like it's not even we're not even building food. I I'm not going to fall for it. I'm not building food because you're making one food a turn.

[46:33] It's awful. Getting a land is decent. But this guy, yeah, like he's camping. He's cooking, but he's cooking with chemicals. And none of these bottles are probably labeled properly. So, I think he'll cook whatever comes up. And this is the crap uncommon of simic. I'm hoping I'm hoping this is the worst worst one. Uh, but I think we're just going to build around the first ability. We're going to ignore the second one. I mean, late game you can use it. But we're able to get five mana on turn four. That's what's important, right? So, we can play five drops. We can play, I guess, beatd down. We can play value, whatever. We'll see what five drops we have in Simic.

[47:16] This is the only way I can think of. So, let's go to simic. Whoops. Simic. And we're not going to restrict card type. We're just going to go mana five. We should have some. I mean, you're in semic, so it's never bad. And your commander again ramps, so your deck is probably fine. But this is the least interesting commander we've seen so far. It's probably not an important character. Probably shows up everywhere, but doesn't do much. Has that energy in him.

[47:58] Return of the wild speaker. Okay. First of all, double season shatic revelation seabore muse so we can make more Sure. No, it's a game changanger. Let's avoid it for now. Tata, sure. Why not? All these cards are better than a but contra. Oh, we can blink our commander. It's so bad. Is this a blink deck?

[48:40] It's not. Sure. Maybe we can go aggressive. Yeah. Yeah. Let's let's go a bit aggressive just because we want the game to finish fast because we probably hate our own deck. Double whatever type of for uh it's only forest. Yes, these kind of cards. Garoot, sure. Yeah, you can't really build around food or landfall because it just doesn't do anything. That doesn't do enough to to enable either.

[49:23] So, yay. So, we're back. Oh, Castle. So, whoops. Yep. This is how far we're taking it. Don't Don't build this guy. Don't build Ignis. Omega Heartless Evolution. I hope this one is better. But see some I look at sometimes some of these abilities have names but some of them don't. Why is that? That's super confusing. This is like a robot. It's probably like the ultimate weapon of the villain, right? It seems. I mean seven out of 88. So just one second. Let me bring Ignis.

[50:04] Excuse me. When Omega enters for each opponent tap up to one target nonline permanent that opponent controls. put X stun counters on each of those permanence. You gain X life. So your H. Okay, that doesn't do much for a drop. How are we building gain life and it cares about nonbasic lands, but the payoff isn't amazing. So do we play Omega Heartless Evolution? Do we play aggro for this just to just be like at the top end or we can play blink?

[50:48] We keep blinking Omega to gain life and top things down and then voltron people with Omega. Omega seven meta though. What do we do before he comes down? Ramp ramp blink. Is that any good? I guess. Yeah, I guess it's better than just playing aggro because Simick is not that great for being aggressive. We had no choice with Ignis, but with Omega, I think I like the blink and clone. Yeah, maybe the blink and clone it as much as we can and use it to voltron people because we just need plus three for this to be a two shot.

[51:29] And we're not too worried about life because we can gain a decent amount of life like probably, you know, five life per per ETB. Okay, we will try that. Omega. So first of all we are going to blink spells equal to no this is not what we return. So some of the same cards with believe. Yes. Yes. Yeah we can in theory we can just tap everything down. Why?

[52:10] Where's the maybe board? Here you go. Sure. Also serves as protection because our commander is so expensive. blur planer in session to freeze. Now, don't blink on your main face because your opponent, your commander can't attack if you do that. a blink on your last opponent's turn. Estrid. Okay, so we have blink. And now what? Now we we can place some payoff cards for placing counters.

[52:51] Like my favorite card, my other favorite card is called patron. Yeah. Whenever you place a counter on opponent's cards, you get you you draw a card. So each blink you're drawing maybe three cards, which is really good. And then maybe some other payoff for tapping your opponent's things. Let's see. Uh we're going to search for opponent creature. Tap whatever. This should do.

[53:33] It's probably not too many. There's a bunch. Okay, maybe we play the top deck. Topping things. We'll see if there's enough payoff. I don't think there's enough payoff. There's a white blue deck. I forgot the name, but it's like the ice queen from from not hra. Yeah, but you need white in blue. There is Oh, there's rarity circle. It's decent. And then fear of sleep paralysis. Okay, that's some payoff. Looks like that's all we Sometime draw a card for each top.

[54:23] Well, there's draw a card for each type creature your opponent's control. Is there? I remember there being one of those. Draw a card for each tapped creature. We'll try it. Draw a card for card for each tapped creature. Let's say target opponent though. We want all of our opponents. Nope. Three. Six mana though. Not sure about that. Are there no better options?

[55:05] Top up to two target creatures with stun counter. Gain control. Draw card. Target opponent. Target player for target your opponent has in. Is this target opponent? Target opponent. Okay. Not that much payoff for tapping things. Tapping things. Yeah. So then we are we need rep. lots of rep because our commander is so expensive. Again, I'm not sure about building around this commander, but this is the only kind of interesting way to do it. So, we'll try it. We'll try it. Uh, ramp.

[55:50] Let's get it. So put in some ramp cultivate kamas reach of course and uh kamas Yeah. And we also need some ways to kill with our commander. So we just need plus three. Now what are the best ways to give plus three is my question. Plus three or just plus X. Plus X plus something. Target creature.

[56:32] It has to be Go. All right. Pumping our commander. it. This is fine. Pump. This is fine. Plus two though, not quite what we want. Yeah, like the combat tricks will be lowered down just because there's a lot of good value cards that Yeah, overprotect. This is what we need. I was wrong. Never mind.

[57:12] We don't want plus three. We want plus We want plus five. Yes. Because otherwise we need two spells. Yeah, we want plus five. So let's see some bigger pump spells. Maybe an aura or something. Plus five. any Yeah, this kind of card. We need to finish the game.

[57:56] Yes, trample. I also remember there being Oh, there you go. Final burst. Yeah. Yeah. So, we have blink cards, we have finishers, and what about life gang payoff? Not in simic. I cannot think of any in simic. Okay, this is a deck. Again, this is so far of all the decks we've built, I think this one will be the least effective. And if you have a better way to do this, please let me know. But it's a cool card. I want to make it work. So, maybe I'll try again later. So select all new category omega.

[58:40] All right. The wandering minstrel. This is the bard. Yeah. This guy clearly homeless. And uh again everywhere you see them everywhere but doesn't do anything. Knows every song except for the one you want to hear. And uh again homeless so he overcompensates with all the stories he tells about the towns he's visited. Yeah. Cares about all the towns. And when you question him he overreacts, pumps everything. You never know who I played for. Uh creatures get plus X number of towns, but there's not that many towns.

[59:22] And this ability is not good. You get a creature every turn. So yeah, I'm feeling I'm starting to feel both of these ability, the second and third ability combined won't be as good as just the first. The first one is just an emulative vigor. That's super good. And we can play Yeah, we can play EDH Summer Bloom. Titan Bloom. Bloom Titan. Is that what it's called? Yeah, that sounds fun. But Bloom Titan requires you to play a few balance a turn. use all that mana to do something. I've always wanted to do this deck in EDH. Maybe this is the best commander for that. The deck with 10 bounce lands and all the extra land land drop spells.

[1:00:05] Cool. So, we're playing lands. Uh, return land pipeline land. Bounce land, bounce land, bounce land. You get the idea. We want all 10. And then we want, of course, emulet of vigor as backup for our commander. And now that we're playing 10 bounce lands, maybe more.

[1:00:47] Are there other bounce lands? Maybe. But for now, we're playing all these bounce lands. What we want is payoffs for lands entering. Oh, we want to play extra lands. Okay. Additional land. Whoops. Additional. Yeah, additional land. Green doesn't have to be green. Green. No. Yeah, just additional lands. ausa.

[1:01:27] Oops. Exploration. Why this happens? Oracle. Do I want that? I don't I don't want to bounce two lands. That's not It's not advantageous. Original land. Sure. Landfall. Yeah, it's six mana, but you will get this out super early. So, the play pattern will be you play your commander and then hopefully an exploration effect. So, on turn three, you will play exploration or a Zusa and then you play bounce land tap, bounce land tap, and you have like six six mana on turn three or turn four.

[1:02:12] That's nice. That's nice. We'll we'll figure out how to use that manner later, but we still want to Yeah, we want more enablers cuz we want to consistently be able to drop extra lands. And sure. Okay, now that we have this, what do we do with the mana? We're going to draw lots of cards because this mana we get on our main phase. So, we don't need instant speed draw. And we want some, you know, for example, what's it called? the best draw spell recurring insight and this is like to this day I don't think any draw spell tops this in terms of e efficiency six mana draw 10 12 sometimes more and uh restoration oh yeah this reminds me we we should play a lot of these MBFCs because you can play them and you can bounce for a value you can use them like later.

[1:03:13] Yeah. So MDFC's shorter modal double face is that okay see why only two sure this is fine I think if we if we end up playing some creatures. No, no, no. Yeah, just add a few just to as a reminder. Sure, sure. Oh, there's Yeah, there's a lot we can choose from. Okay. And next up, so now that we have land, we have card draw, we have this big huge value, what are we doing with it?

[1:04:00] I think the easiest way is just again do landfall payoff. Is there a better something better more interesting we can do? I don't think so because again we're this ability is not good. It's not good. We'll play some towns of course. But we'll see what towns there are I guess. Excuse Town not NDFC. This is so bad. Gain two life. Oh, we can bounce it in game more life. It's still pretty bad. It's terrible. I guess we're playing them.

[1:04:42] Are we? I mean, at least ah I don't think we're using the ability. Are we? Maybe at least make it, you know, overrun. It's not It's not terrible as a mana sync because you will have a lot of mana. Okay, we'll play some towns. Yeah, like this capital city cycling. Not this. We want colored mana. Hide away. No, it doesn't work. I Eden, seat of the sanctum, mil to return a thing. Think we want colors. Yeah, we'll play this cycle. Don't care what they do.

[1:05:22] What's this? Unless it's your first, second, third pay one. Sure. Starting to town, the gold coin flip town. Thunder. Yes. Beautiful. Now, yeah, I'm pretty sure we're doing landfall payoffs. Text landfall. No swarm Avenger.

[1:06:03] Yay. Anything more interesting? Not really. Do you have a deck? And since you're saving a lot of money because you don't have room for dual lens or shock lens in this deck, we can play something expensive, right? Because you're playing five color. Your budget should be high. We are playing the tabernacle. Wait, not the tabernacle. Condalabra because we're playing bounce lands. This is super ramp. Anything we want to add? Cuz five color is so open. You can do a lot of things. But I think this is yeah a decent skeleton. If you can think of a better payoff than landfall cards, let me know because I'd love something a little bit different.

[1:06:49] But this deck seems fun to play. All right, next up, Cloud. Okay, this is the main character. I know Cloud. He's the kind of guy that says, "Oh, I I fight alone." And then joins the team fight. Only works for money, but then I remember doing a lot of free quests. So, a very conflicted character. Doesn't know what he wants. Also, not a lot of character development from what I saw, but I guess I I only played for 10 hours. So, Cloud Planet Champion Red White during your turn as long as Cloud is equipped.

[1:07:30] One second. I need to move this. This one is bar the wondering minstro minstro. Okay, back to cloud. As long as cloud is equipped as double strike. Wow. indestructible equip abilities cost two. Wow. Okay. This is really good. It's like it reminds me of Zurggo from the the old Zurggo Mardu where it's indestructible. So you play a bunch of wipes. Why are these not in Oh. Oh wait. What?

[1:08:11] One second. Minstro. Okay, now Cloud can go. But we'll play a bunch of equipments. What equipments will we play? The ones that take advantage of the double strike equip cost two. Yeah, it's the swords. Uh, sort of blah blah. Not this one. Maybe this one. Yeah, we can one-shot people with it. Sure. And it's not going to cost too much because I mean cloud is five mana and other equipment would be another three or four so it's reasonable. And equip two. Yeah.

[1:08:52] Perfect. Body and mind. Nope. Feast of feminine. Yes. Sword and fire and ice. Yes. Hearth and home. Do we want a blink cloud? Not really. But we want the land. We do. Maybe we can blink cloud sometimes because equip is cheap anyways. Sword of ours. Once in future. What the su and steel we can play a few of these. War in peace. Sword of truth and justice. Truth and justice. Proliferate. Don't really need that.

[1:09:34] Wealth and power. Get treasure. Cast spells for free. That's It's fine. Okay, then we'll play some wipes. Destroy all Destroy all creatures. Why are we still doing Whoops. I think this is fine. Sure. Frost your command. Good wipe. Fumigay, great board wipe. Cleansing Nova, good card.

[1:10:17] Forgot to do red, white, but it's mostly white anyways. Wins. Nope. Okay, you get the idea. Okay. And then of of course blasphemous act. And once you have that, so cloud will be two shot sometimes one shot. What more can we do with cloud? Double strike free to equip or cost two less to equip. We want some protection spells because we are pretty going pretty much all in with cloud. So, let's look for Oh, we want also want protection from color.

[1:11:02] Yes, because it also gives evasion. So, we'll prioritize these chromos. See, even if you don't get the double strike, this card is still pretty good, but it's expensive. So, we'll leave it for now because it's not as good as in other colors. Sure. Apostle's blessing. Good. No. Brave the Sure. Eldrich immunity. This is actually good because it works through the swords because imagine if I have a sword of oh see of what's it called?

[1:11:51] wealth and power the protection spells. You cannot cast them. I think it's still good. Still good. Um, yeah, but if you have like worm piece equipped, you cannot use the white protection spells, but immunity you can still do. But I still think it's worth playing. So, we got swords, protection spells, board wipes, card draw. Yeah, of course. Draw equipment. Yeah, this turning into a fairly standard equipment deck. Not much not too much interesting things going on. Draw a card.

[1:12:32] Equipment. Attack player with one or just draw a card. Tap that creature. This is decent protection for cloud, I'd say. Oh, yeah. I want Boros. Boros. Whenever equipment you control interest, you may discard. I don't want to discard. Search your light grave for light a card named spirit of Leonitis. We can play the spear. Spirit is good. Onto battlefield. Shuffle control attach deals combat damage. Legendary. How many legendary equipments do we have? Oops. many. Search for a spear.

[1:13:13] But what if we draw the spear? This card wouldn't be But still, okay, graveyard hand. Battlefield. Okay, I think we play Uh, okay, we play it. Spirit. The spear is good. I'll search for it. Double strike is relevant, but you can create a token or you can discard and draw. You can filter. So, Mahiri. No. Yeah, this is what I'm looking for. Pure steel and ceram.

[1:13:56] Also, we need some finishers because in Boros, we're not playing the long game. We have to finish as soon as we can. So, additional combat, double strike with additional combat is just brutal. Except when I fail the search. What? Oh, sorry. Addition. No combat. Why? Oh, what? Addition. No. Sorry. Okay. Ak battle squad on tap. All no. I like Aurelia. Do I like Aurelia more? I think Aurelia is better.

[1:14:36] Combat Cbron. Maybe not. No. Emer. Oh. When my legend needs to die. Full throttle. The best one. Genji glove. Excellent. Great train heist. You get two treasures. Yes, you get two treasures. You get pump. You get additional combat if you pay the full cost. Decent. This one you get pump and get extra combat. It's slightly risky, but your commander has indestructible and also you don't want protection from red when you cast this. But I think it's worth it. I think it's it.

[1:15:20] And uh this good five mana because additional combat cards should be like not that expensive ideally so that you can you know squeeze it in late game and among like but along with the other uh other things you do. So I'm thinking maybe we play this one like overpowering attack. Yeah, because it will cost three mana if your command commander gets Rayu is cloud is not a samurai.

[1:16:00] No, it sees the day. One of the best ones. Okay. And last, I think that's it. We need some ramp, of course, but seems obvious. Yeah, we have a deck. This deck is pretty strong, I'd say, because cloud is very pushed. Makes sense. It's the main character. All righty. Select all. Cloud. Next. Guillot, King of the Dwarfs. Whenever guilt or another dwarf you control interest, uh, whenever equipment you control interest, you may discard a card to draw a card.

[1:16:46] Oh, this is not good. But it's it's really aggressive. Yeah, you can play this like cloud, but it's more aggressive because it's cheaper. Okay. Okay. We have a plan for this. We can play those equipments that Yes. We'll see. We'll see if there's enough good ones. Enter. Attach. Target creature. Uh, attach creature. All right. Tipline equipment. And we want it to be red, white within red, white. Yes.

[1:17:29] Done. Okay. I remember some good ones off the top of my head. If there's enough, we can have a decent vron deck. Sure. My throw code. Hammer of non. Ember cleave. No. Double strike. Hero played. No. Silvershield. Yes. Mall of the sky. Good card. Molir. Tap target creature. Defending play control. Oh yeah. Again. Doesn't do anything. We're Voltron. You know when the uncommon commander doesn't even want to. You are not a good card.

[1:18:13] Hidden blade. Wait, frying pan. Let's see. Create that many halfling x amount of life you gain. Whenever you gain life now, if I give it a lifelink, there's some synergy. But right now, it's just plus six plus six. No, no, no. Doesn't work. Doesn't work. This one is beautiful. Celestial armor. Nuts card. Uh, three or less return creature. Oh, this can return a commander. Good. Good card. Crowbar. Nope. Rogue. Are we a rogue?

[1:18:54] No, we're not. We're like some crappy side quest villain. It's like the one that's all and turns out to be decently strong but difficult to take seriously despite that. We will fight along with you for the planet or home. I might be a little bit off. Seems like seems like a recruitable character. Hard to say. Dwarf Noble. All right. Dissection tools. Five mana is expensive, but you get No, it doesn't attach to our commander. Morning Star plus one No flying plus one.

[1:19:43] Yeah, it's fine. Plus two flash. Yeah, probably. Uh, hidden footblade. First strike. We don't need that. Plus one haste. Plus one haste. me dualist rap here plus two. Yeah, we want these Okay. And then now that we have all these equipments enter, we'll trigger gu a lot. We'll be discarding a lot. How do we use that discard?

[1:20:23] Discard a card. Draw a card. Play things from graveyard. Not sure what we can do. I think it's just for filtering, right? Whatever. I think it's quite good. Just discard what you don't need at the moment, but I guess we can play some discard synergies because we're in Boros. And if we can net some card advantage from that, we'll take it. Uh discard whenever discard. Whenever you a Yeah. Not not equipment.

[1:21:07] Sorry. Why? I'll go back. Whenever you discard. Yeah, we're fine. We're not fine. Whenever Oh, sorry. Whenever you discard. I can't think of some good ones already. Not this. Yes. This. No. Maybe. But not not right now. Uh whenever you discard you can No.

[1:21:48] No. Brass tunnel discard draw if you just send it this turn. Put a board counter if there are three board counters. What does it do? Discover X doesn't do enough. I think doesn't do enough. Doesn't do enough. Doesn't do enough. Whenever you discard one or more cards extop card library, you can play it. This might be okay. Oh, it also pumps our commander. I think that's enough payoff. Just two in artist talent. Cast an uncreature spell. You may discard a double discard.

[1:22:29] They cost one less. Is that relevant for us? A little bit. Yeah, it's relevant. I'm I'm think I'm listening. If a source you control deal non Never mind, I'm not listening. Monument of endurance. Discard a card. Beautiful. This is what I'm looking for. Sturly badasaur. Whenever you discard a creature card, land card, non-creature or non land, it fights. It's decent. Four mana is expensive. And also doesn't really give us card advantage. Just fights things. Guess it's okay.

[1:23:10] Now, this is what I've been looking for. Bag of holding. Beautiful currency Yes. And then we play the seram and crystal paladin. What else do what other payoffs do we have in cloud? P steel paladin. Seram. I think that was it. I think that was it. Yeah. Uh so we will do the same Ceram pure steel.

[1:23:53] And of course we want protection spells for our commander and double combat. So this is a similar deck to cloud but it's way more aggressive. Cloud is more like late game. It will go into mid game at least and then it will control the board boardwide cloud. But this guy is just combat. Put it the same ones. Full throttle. Genji No great train heist.

[1:24:35] Grim reapers print. Yeah, there you go. And then we protection spells. Of course, we need those. And here we can play once again. Yeah, once again we want protection from color. Ideally protect from Sure. Sure. Just have a few brave the elements. Okay. And now let's just in case just in case it's relevant, we're going to look at some dwarfs.

[1:25:15] I doubt it. I doubt But we might be surprised because dwarfs do work with artifacts. Do work with artifacts. I mean, Saram is a dwarf, right? I think. Not going to Huh? What happened to my dwarf? No, I need I need type. Sorry.

[1:25:58] dwarf. Yes, I think that's why. Thram. All right, we already have him. Nope. Torban. Torband. Source control. Deal damage to opponent double damage. It's okay. It's four mana though. Bor. Speaking of four mana, this one seems worth the four mana. Yeah, this card is excellent for rebuilding when your commander if your commander dies or something. Just also a great finisher. Okay, we have a few decent dwarfs.

[1:26:39] Whenever a creature control get attack, double strike. Nope. Historic spell create a treasure. This seems fine. We're casting a bunch of historic spells, right? Historic payoff. H might be good. Another legendary artifact play too. Sure. Yeah, we are playing small equipments, right? Bunch of SC. Ideally, we want maybe 15 to 20 for these payoffs to be decent. What does this do? Nope. Okay, we have a deck.

[1:27:21] Any other graveyard interaction we use? Oh, like something like forge in you perhaps forge and you there's a lot of return equipment you can equip for free. Yes. All right, we have a deck. So, select all. Go into what's his name again? Guilt rhymes with idiot. Next up, Joshua. This card looks cool. It's like a burning. When Joshua enters, discard up to two cards, then draw that many cards. Okay, this looks good.

[1:28:03] And then we can exile Joshua, then return it to the battlefield, transform under its owner's control. It's very expensive. Let's hope the backside is good. The backside is not good. Wow, this is terrible. I mean once you get to you can return creatures from great but but I have to wait three I have to pay eight mana wait turns flying lifelink I guess it gains you two life not two life gains you six life in four player but man I don't know it's not good who is this guy anyways in ashen grip let ember glow to kindle flames in you Okay.

[1:28:53] No information Probably doesn't die cuz Phoenix. It's all I can think of. Probably a really strong character that just swoops in for one of your battles and then leaves. Refuses to elaborate. Everything is burning, but his clothes are not burning. So, these fires are probably not real fires just for the just for the looks. Yeah. just for the vibes. The factor seems good. But it looks like we are building around the discard too.

[1:29:33] Yeah, we'll try Boros's graveyard, but I doubt anything will come up. I mean, there's something. We'll see. We'll see. Okay, so just search graveyard. Graveyard. Yep. and see what comes up. Farewell sun titan savings underworld. Yeah, there isn't really any payoff. Okay, I'll keep looking. Feldon kind of but oh boy.

[1:30:19] This is rough. I think we might have to just go borrow good stuff with some payoff. Does the transform really not do anything? I mean, it is graveyard. Yeah. So, but you can't build around this ability is the problem. And you can't build around the first one either. What's it going to do? I gain six life. Yeah. And more importantly, he's not guaranteed to flip. You're paying this mana at sorcery speed. Yeah. Although if I'm your opponent, I'll let you flip because I know you're not doing anything. I know I know the front side is even worse. Sorry, the back side is even worse. Yeah, but it's it's reusable, right? The backside blinks into the front side. So, you get two more discards for more value.

[1:31:00] Okay, so Boros, good stuff. And that's the easiest one to search for because you just go Boros. No text. I think we want no colorless. Okay, we don't want lands or artifacts for now. Uh, we want artifacts. Okay, no lands for now. So, Cool. You know, I was teaching actually I I teach some kids English and I was teaching them about oxymoron. Boro's good stuff is an oxymoron.

[1:31:41] I just realized. Sure. Play all the cards. All the good cards. Yay. Path of swords. Put them in. But let's go fast. Sure. We are desperate. Sure. Yes. Yes. We need all these faith looting in case later we have some discard. Yes. The one ring. Of course, we're we are bracket four, kids. We're bracket four. Yes, we don't need this because we don't need to protect our commander.

[1:32:22] Might as well. The redirect could be useful. What other good stuff do we have? Hero's horn. No, roaming through. Roaming through. Does that is any good? Human noble wizard. They don't even share a type. Okay, never mind. Farewell. Sure. Is that a game changer? Okay, we want to look for cards that are actually interesting though. So, go go go go go. Yeah, we want we can hopefully find the payoff for all the discarding we're doing. I think we can sometime there's a ravenous reclamation target.

[1:33:14] I think this is fine. You can get lands. Sure. Setting up for something big. It's coming up any moment. It's coming up. This card is good. Uh maybe not. Lentax. Yes. Anger. No, cuz we're not even creature a creature stack right now. Underworld Sure. It's not good. It's not that good. But where's our graveyard stuff? I guess it won't come up until super late. So maybe maybe we What if we Lold?

[1:34:04] No. Where's the grave search again? Graveyard. Graveyard. It should take a closer look. Yes. Yes. Yes. Dusk. Nope. And now that we're not really focused on any theme, we just want generic graveyard stuff. There's some some decent cards. Feldon is fine. Feldon is fine. We don't have that many creatures, but I think we we will. Are we? Uh well, we'll see. We'll see. Graveyard. I think I wasn't patient enough.

[1:34:44] I think I should look more cuz like you know America effort great card me temple graveyard synergy. I think this is the deck. Yeah, I wouldn't recommend building over playing this deck. It's gonna cost you a bunch and not do much, but unfortunately this is the best I can do with Joshua. Can you think of something better?

[1:35:24] Man, I am disappointed. I'm disappointed in myself I if you again, if you force it, you can force kind of build around the two damage, double the damage, gain lots of life, ether flux someone, but I don't think it's I think it's even worse. And also, I can't wait to move on to my favorite morals commander in the set, Lightning. This one I knew about because I I died to it a lot of times already. Damn you, Joshua. Lightning seems like one of those main characters, right? Has to be. I mean, it's a mythic. And human soldier, lightning, it flashes bright, then fades away.

[1:36:08] It can't protect. It only destroys. So again, one of these really one-dimensional characters that just does one thing, right? Kind of cool. Doesn't talk Uh yeah, probably has the same outfit times. It's fast. First try trample lifelink is super pushed. Stagger whenever lightning deals combat damage to a player until your next turn. If a source would deal damage to that player or a permanent that player controls, double that damage. And this is ridiculous. This is a really powerful ability in Imboral's aggro like just because lightning hits first and all your other creatures will now have double damage against that opponent.

[1:36:56] So, you're taking down one opponent at a time. I've seen some people try burning, but burn is just not that efficient. And sure, damage is double, but it's not not to each opponent, right? Burn cards, a lot of them are for every opponent. So, I want to try aggro. Let's see how what small creatures we can curve into. Um, lightning, we have Boros, and have just creature for now. And we want them to be small, less than four.

[1:37:42] Sure. Good start. Facebreaker. Absolutely. Grand Abolisher. I think this is good because again we like cloud and uh what's his name? Guilt. We we will be doing some surprise, you know, extra combat protection evasion. So, we want to be able to not be responded to. Do we rack of them? Probably not. We want cars that kind of scale with the game that get bigger, at least aggressively sized, like this. Yeah, this is the prime example.

[1:38:22] Adeline Cranco Boromir absolutely protecting our board. We might not drop Lightning on uh we want to drop it on turn three if possible. We want to get her I think attacking as soon as possible. Yeah. Captain. Ranger Captain is not has one has one job. Has one job. is to search for Sarah ascendant which should come up soon I think is this good make a thought for every turn haste not amazing wizard triggered are we a wizard we are a human soldier okay there you go Sarah ascendant okay so we have okay we want combat cbrant extra combat is nuts with lightning just because you can just kill someone with a an okay board 40 damage cuz the

[1:39:26] damage is doubled and then doubled again for your other creatures. Yeah. So, we want extra combat. Absolutely. We won't do that now. Extra no additional. This is how Boros we are playing. We're putting these in almost every deck except for Joshua because he sucks. But in every deck, because this is how Boros wins games, you have to like your opponents are calculating, okay, they can do 12 damage to me. I can untap psychonic rift, but then you do 24 and they're like, oh crap. You have to catch them by surprise. Um, extra combat.

[1:40:08] All right, we'll why. Oh, CMC CMC restriction. That's why Aurelia absolutely is nuts. Carlac, sure. Scourge is a bit slow. Six mana, they have to wait for it to attack. Sure. We want to play a bunch of these. Want to play seeds the day? Is that good? Can we vultron someone to death? Say our commander is three.

[1:40:49] It attacks for three and then attacks again for six and then attacks again for 12. That does that kill someone? That's not Oh, it kills someone exactly if it's unblocked. Oh, no, no, no. What we do is we attack with our commander. The rest of the board stays put and then Yeah. And then we do combat. On the third combat, if we get it, the rest of the board goes in. That is guaranteed to kill Yes, I think it's good. I think it's good. I mean, the interactions is a bit complicated, but you need to give lightning some kind of evasion or but then it's already lethal, but there's definitely room to play Uh, yeah.

[1:41:40] Yeah. Okay, you get the idea. And also, we need lots of protection spells. And this time is for the entire board. So, creatures, oops, creatures game indestructible. Uh, strive. No. Oh, Chroma as well. Absolutely. Holy crap. Oh, speaking of this, we need we need some double strike, don't we? Yeah, we can get some double strike. Aison, that protection. Now, this kills board.

[1:42:20] Indestructible borrower. Do we have it? I think we do. Yeah, we do. I chance for Glory. Is this the deck for Chance for Glory? No, it's not because it doesn't even synergize with with our commander. We want extra combat and double strike. Divine resilience. Yes. Where is Tfair's protection? Good enough. Great card. Grand Crescendo builds our board and protects it. Lower hold command. Yeah. Okay. So, protection, aggro, and extra combat.

[1:43:05] Is that anything else we want? We do want some double strike maybe. So, something like H. We'll see what double strike there is. Oh, but double strike only works with our commander. It doesn't work. It doesn't pump the rest of our board. So, it lets our commander do three and the six damage. So, maybe not super necessary. Maybe we just want some pump because our commander is I mean it's only three power, right? Needs to get through. So, kind of evasion. Okay.

[1:43:45] Uh what kind of evasion can we use? unblock flying creature get flying. Don't think it's too good. Yeah, I think we have to use the protection from color spells again. Let's trample though. So, pump The pump spells are less good just because I mean they're great with extra combat, but on the first attack you're just pumping. We'll see if there's any good pump spells first.

[1:44:27] How about this plus get plus something and pipeline will be instant or sorcery. It could be equipment. Could be equipment. Oh yeah, like what's it called? Ember cleave. That's what we're for. That's the kind of card we're looking for. Ember Yes. We will do another search. Get plus. Okay. Can be anything.

[1:45:15] Shadow Spear. No command plate. No glitters. Rising the day. Haste. No. Legendary creatures we control. Flowering. No. Rever. Yeah, we don't really want I don't Most equipments we don't really want. I think hammer of nazan is fine. This is fine just for protection. And also what's it called? What's the name? Mithro coat. It's fine. Am I spelling my wrong?

[1:45:56] Myth coat. What? Why it's not called coat? There's no coat in it. Myth. I can't believe it. Okay, we will have to search for flash equip indestructible. Mythro cult. Oh, myth. Sorry, sorry, Mithro.

[1:46:40] And also this is great protection spell with evasion with free to equip flash. Yeah. Holy Yeah, this is the kind of card I'm looking for. I'll keep looking. Does this do anything? Deals one damage. So, if you hit I think this is fine. It's not amazing. I mean, you hit them and then you play some creatures, they become this becomes peripherals, but then some of your creatures have haste. You want them to haste, so it's probably not amazing. Where are my pump spells? This one? Nope. This is This is a pop spell.

[1:47:21] Moon Shaker. Too expensive. Yeah, you get the idea. This is a great deck. I would I would love to play it. One of my favorite commanders from this set. Next up, we have Zade Tentilus thief. Human mutant scout. How is he a mutant? I don't see it. Was that a tail?

[1:48:03] Oh, it's like a monkey. Okay, this is Yeah, this is like the kind of character that lives in the forest. He lived in a jungle all his life and then somehow is more sociable, less socially awkward than the entire main character group. Uncommon. Uh, when Zang enters gain control of target creature and opponent controls on tap it gains lifelink and haste. Whenever an opponent gains control of permanent from you, you create a treasure token. This is not good. This is not good. It's like the Zedru deck. It's like the donate archetype or the act of treason deck.

[1:48:43] But the problem is the payoff is nothing. You get a treasure for all that. At least give me one card. And you draw a card. Why can't I draw a card? If I if I can draw a card, this is buildable. You can act of treason. They can trip. You can donate things. Oh boy, what do we do? If we do act of treason tribal, so we steal something every turn and then we give it back just to smack someone and then we're defenseless. We have our treasures to block. Oh, this is the crap uncommon of set. Give me I don't want to give up. Give me like 30 seconds. It just it's but I guess we have to because I know the act of treason ability is much more powerful at instant speed.

[1:49:36] So, would a blink deck be a thing? Like you blink it. Yeah, it's so much better when you do it in your opponent's turn or or you have you threaten to do it on your opponent's turn, but I don't think we have enough instantly blinks to make it work. Basically, during combat, your opponent will think that you always have a blink. So that one, your commander is protected, and two, they can't attack you because they attack you, you take the strongest creature and block with it, and you end up with more life than you you started and they lose their biggest creature. That's that's really nice. That's really good. Okay, maybe. Yeah, maybe this is a thing. The problem is we cannot do slow blink.

[1:50:18] Slowblink doesn't do anything with Zane, right? Yeah, because you don't return it. It's till the end of turn. So, Slowblink doesn't do anything. So, it has to be the immediate blink. And I doubt we will have find we'll find enough, but we will try. I hope I'm wrong. I hope I'm wrong. Blink exile return. Pretty sure pipeline. We will not restrict the type. We will search with Yep.

[1:51:00] If I'm right, slow uh fast blink. This is a slow blink. I saw number you control return those card. That's slow blink. Slow blink. Fast blink. A fast blink. Oh, we have some decent ones actually. Mimic fat today. No. Fast blink. Touch the spirit realm. Semester's end. This is a slow blink, I believe. Yes. Yes. Acrobatics. Is this a slow blink? This can be a a slow blink. No, we don't want that.

[1:51:41] Flicker of Fate. Good card. Yeah, it's dropping equality real fast. We only have five. This might not work. A frozy displacer. Parting gust is a great card, but it's a it's a slow blink. No, that's it. Ghost way. Slow blink. Aldrazi confluence. This is a blink. Okay. You can also create a token and choose. You may choose the same move more than once. Oh, you cannot blink twice, but you can. Yeah, you can blink or remove something. Make Yeah, this is good. Beggars can be choosers.

[1:52:22] Just remember to play some lens. What does this do? Exile. Oh, please be a fast. No, slow blink. Slow blink. Fast blink. Oh, we have No, not not quite. We need more. We need more blink. Oh, this deck needs a feather. Well, I'm so glad feather came up with a search cuz I would never I would never thought of maybe I would have, but not. Oh, please just give me Let's see. Give me one, two, five more.

[1:53:04] I need five or six more blinks. Slow blink. Uh, sorcery. Sorcery. Scroll shift. Ah, good. I forgot about these countries. There's one more. There's one more. Well, you can't do it. Gaz hourglass pendant. If a player will be next turn, that player skips the turn instead. Uh, no. Yes. Fast blink.

[1:53:49] Nice. Flicker Form. I forgot about this card. Wait. Yes. Okay. We I mean, we don't have that many that that can trigger feather, but I still think it's good cuz we just need one blinking spell in hand for feather to go nuts. Kind of. Two is better, but just one astral drift. When you cycle, you ex Oh, it's good. It's good. Ah, end step. Why get away glamour? No. Against all odds, please. No, that's not even a blink spell. Other worldly. Oh, no. It's a slow blink. Ah, Pegasus exile target creature control then return. Nice. It's even Oh, it's even payoff for for blinking.

[1:54:33] We have I think we have a deck. I think we have a deck. Long roll doesn't work. Astral slide. No. Whenever uh No. Morland Parallax Wave. This card is sweet. Yeah, cuz you can just play for a mana, hold it, and then blink any number of creatures. Well, blink up to five creatures, right? And you don't need to target five. You can just target sedane five times if you just want to blink sedane only. You only get one blink, but you can in a pinch you can use it and you can remove five things like someone's attacking you. You fog basically or you Oh, I think we are making a blink deck.

[1:55:17] We will see. We will see. Cuz what else are we putting to the deck? Blink, right? Stonecloaker angel. Oh, is this No. Oh, another restoration angel. Yes. disguise doesn't do anything. I think that's it. Oh no, there's an old water. There's an old card. What's it called? I forgot. We have to find it. We have to find it. Okay, this deck I think we might be going deep with this one. So maybe I'll leave a time stamp for the next deck if you want to skip it. Yeah, I will. Cuz this might take a little while.

[1:55:58] We are 2 hours in and this is peak and well again I'm maybe speaking too early. We'll see. But I have a good feeling about this. Choose another heart creature. Control No. Joshua. Nice to see you again. Coin of fate. I saw your cards from No. No. Where's that old card? If I can remember the name, I can. It's not here. It's called snappers. It's not called snap. Someone help me. Strange.

[1:56:38] Maybe I'll find it later. But uh for now, we are going to look for also red clone spells that can clone. Zane, but only instance. I'm not sure if there's any, but we don't want to miss it if there is. So, copy target creature. Copy toferno. No, it's not copy creature. Yeah, I don't think there's copying target creature in in red, white, instant speed.

[1:57:20] So, we have 19 cards and all of them blink almost. I think this is fine. And we want to because it's we have feather. We also want a m Marvin Mav Mavinda Yes. Because in Boros, we have to, you know, get the value. We are not getting too much card advantage. Now I think we are looking for blink targets. What other synergy is there? control. Oh. Oh. Oh. Stiltken. We can stiltkin because we can give some opponent's cards to what's it called?

[1:58:04] Stilt. We can donate someone's card to another person. Stiltskin. Sorry. Stiltskin. Target opponent. Gain control of another target control. Yeah. And then you pay two to give them that card. Nice. Usually we'll do this with commanders. swap their commanders with each other. And yeah, now we're looking for enter the battlefield cards. Enter the battlefield. We don't want to play too many. We want to play a few that we can just keep blinking and win the game. Hopefully, they can win the game for us, but we'll see.

[1:58:45] We will see sometime sometime worth it. Probably not. Wait, is it a com? No, it's not a combo with this, but Karma Guide. Yeah. Yeah. Sky Cleave Operation. See, this is This card is good, but I don't think it's worth a blink because blink spells are We don't have that many. I mean, we have a few. We want to save it for other things. We if we don't have enough targets, good targets, we will come back. But innocence problem is we probably don't have a lot of two power things.

[1:59:26] We'll see. Is the marri shepherd good enough? I think it might be like it's not ETB, but we want to keep it on the board just because just because it's so much value when we landfall. I think it's worth it. Um, Hellkai Corser with this Oh, so with this on the field, I can just blink this. I don't even need to. It will bring in Zane and then Zane will leave. Oh, okay.

[2:00:07] It's like another Zedane basically. It's not super powerful, the but the interaction is funny. And it's I mean, six mana is a good card. You can blink it. Oh, that's really cool. I like it. Gend. What is What does he do? Nothing. Flash. Legendary creatures. Legendary artifact trigger. Oh, double trigger. Artifact leaving double. I think that's kind of worth it. Well, I have to see if we have other legendary creatures. Uh, maybe not really. Oh, but with Gandalf, you have flash with Gandalf on tap and then you can Zedane.

[2:00:47] You blink Zane twice. It's like insurrection. Entering or leaving? Entering or leaving? We'll see. We'll see. Okay. Aerial extortionist interest deals combat exile target non gun permanent. Okay, this is the card we This is the kind of removal card we need. Yeah, sweet. Draws us cards. We need card draw. Gold gets us an equipment. I don't think we want equipments cuz we're blinking unless it's No, it's not worth it. Yes, this is the card we need. Uh, Angeli, by the way. Yeah, because some of you maybe can't see my going.

[2:01:31] Yeah, you can remove, you can recur, does everything. Abdo, what does Abdull do? Exile any number until it leaves. So, you can exile. It's too slow, I think. Samwise, I'm I'm going fast because these are small cards are small. Probably don't do much. Angel of indemnity mana four mana value four. I think it's worth it. I think it's good. I mean unfortunately for some reason our commander is five mana. I mean this can be four mana, right?

[2:02:13] I guess it's too good and limited but fine. Arbaz champion of minus ter enter the battlefield you choose monarch you become monarch and it's a propaganda blinking this we do want monarch in the game we do cuz it's difficult for our opponents to target us but this ability is not what we need it's fine but it's not we we'll hold it if we can't find other good monarch cards we might include this but I feel Red bite is pretty good for monarch, right? Glorious protector until it leaves.

[2:02:55] Now, this is like a slow blink, but can be used as a fast blink if we have sacks. Kind of like I kind of want to now. How does it work? So, I have a board and then I flash this in for four mana. It exalts my board and now I can just use blink spell on the angel and it's like blinking everything. Is that right?

[2:03:36] And then I protect my board. Is that right? I think so. Whoa, that's super good, isn't it? Let me double check. Okay, you blink the angel. Everything comes in, trigger CTB, and then the angel comes back to exile everything again. Oh, this is nuts. I also want that. Oh, yeah. I missed it, but I also want that card. This card, right? Because the same thing. When it enters, exile any number. Create a token for each one. And then you blink it. Everything comes in. You get P. Oh, okay.

[2:04:16] We have a deck, boys. Oh, honestly, I'm sorry, Lightning, but this might be my new deck. I'll have to play it to see, but this looks sweet on paper. World. Are we brave enough? No. Weird. We're not going to world gorge. What does this do? Scamp. No, not going to read it. Redemption choir. Redemption choir enters. If you control three or more creatures different power return no glory rise return all human creatures today is a human what other human do we have probably not worth it but exile all zombies what if what if no it's not worth Essence of No.

[2:05:19] Bill. What's Bill do? Make two fruits. Motor load. Mother Creatures are controlled bust two sent no Sarah Leon's two creatures talk said no number of artifacts are controlled no I think how many cards do we have we have 29 cards not that many so I think there's still room but how many blink targets do we have like five or six good ones there's one I have in mind there's one I in mind is like a Oh, is this good?

[2:06:01] Trove warden. No, but the one I have in mind is the the primordial molten primordial. I think that when it enters, you just steal two things or one from each opponent actually, which is really good. Until we get to that, I'm I would I'm willing to believe that there's other quality cards waiting for us. What does the Buzz Crusher do? Destroy land. No, doesn't do enough. Twilight Ash Lomb number.

[2:06:42] Oh, it's the same thing. Do we want another one of these? I don't think we need another one of these. Two is enough cuz it's kind of a bit of a win more card. Like it's nuts once you get it set, but also there's not much payoff with this one. So, I'll skip it for now. Salt skitter comes into play removed. Shepherd. The quality is dropping. Clive. What does Clive do? Discards your hand. Draw equal to your devotion to So, we can discard our hand and draw a of three, assuming Zane is in play.

[2:07:26] What other red permanence do we have? We don't have many. Let's see the backside. Although it's probably not relevant. It is not relevant. Okay. Uh, bishop is binding. Nope. No. No. Idolon. Oh, we can have constellation. Don't think it's good Boom weaver giant entered search for battlefield aura card put on battlefield attached to boom has to be attached to boom weaver what auras do we have because I don't want it the only aura is the what's it called flicker form but I want that on today so no fear of abduction leaves the battlefield exile targeter opponent control no not goodian savior valued M value too.

[2:08:16] Nope. General Leo. Oh, okay. I'm pretty close to just searching for that card. Don't think we're Yeah, don't don't think we're getting House Molten Primordial Soul. Nobody plays that card. Card is nuts. Card is like one of the Okay, maybe not one of the best, but it's a pretty good aggro card, I'd say. Okay, let's find it. Molten. Prime ore deal. It's sweet, right? You get to steal three creatures. You get alpha strike people and then you get what? treasures. So now we have 30 cards.

[2:08:58] And of course we need some ramp. I might as well get might as well go there. We need some ramp. Uh, artifact cuz Zing is five mana. Five mana is a lot. We want to be able to get Zane out and hold a blink spell as soon possible. So, Soul Ring, is this a deck Sunforger? I don't think so. It's what? Two to uh Sunforger. It's a bit expensive and all we have is Blink spells. So, I'm sure we have to play some removals, but probably not enough.

[2:09:39] Mind stone, commander sphere. Spear is good. Yeah, sure. Roaming Yes. Yes, we want Wait. And we can even change the creature type by blinking it. Not good. How many humans do we have? It's just the dang. If it's just the dang, it might not be worth it. Yeah. You know what? I don't think just getting one or two. I don't really need I just need one steel to shut off to shut down most combat attempts us.

[2:10:20] So, uh sorry, man rocks animal too too big. Cursed Mirror is sick. Cursed Mirror is one of the best man. Warm Power Stone is fine. Relic Legends. This is good because when you get blinked like Zen can tap for a mana and then you blink it, you can tap one more mana. So this I think is good. Okay, we should play more, but for now we will just put these. And next uh 37 cards. We really we desperately need some card advantage card draw.

[2:11:01] So, how are we drawing cards in Boros? are Monarch. Let's Because again, we are shutting down combat. We're trying to shut down combat. So, let's try to take Monarch. Although, your opponents can probably send, you know, two or three small things at you and take the Monarch and then it's difficult for us to take it back. We'll see if we have any monarch good monarch cards. Champion is hopefully not the Court Skyland is fine. Ember Wild Captain.

[2:11:42] I guess it's like a backup punishment like for attacking us. I think this one is fine. I think the courts are good. Fourth. No. Yeah, I don't think we want the quartz just because again because if we get enough payoff from the monarch, your opponents will try to take it and then it's like difficult for us. We have three two attacking us. Do we do we use Zen or not? Um so Impalis Palace Palace Jailer no Aom king of Rohan double strike when enters put. Okay. When interest target player becomes monarch deals damage equal to his power.

[2:12:28] I don't think this is that good. Yeah. No archon of coronation interest becomes monarch. As long as you're a monarch then dam it doesn't cost. Don't think it's super amazing. Unfortunately we are going to have to wait. Is this good card sacrifice chooses two? No, it's not good. Unfortunately, we had to find other ways. I was thinking, what about defector? Humble defector. So, you can steal it. You can steal this with Zang and then give it again to draw two cards.

[2:13:17] So, but the problem is you're playing you're expending one blink spell to draw two cards. In a pinch, it's decent, but then you're also helping your opponents. And knowing your shenanigans, your opponents are probably not going to pass the defector to right? Maybe we can play like a mini package with homework path. Maybe. Maybe because I just remember there's another humble defector in white, but I forgot the name. It's Fallout. It's a roll. Yes man or something. Yes man.

[2:13:58] Oh, it is is Yes. Okay. Target opponent gains control of target if yes man personal something. Secure Securatron. Yeah. What they do? You draw two cards and put a quest counter. When yes man leaves the owner create. Okay, this is this is good. So we play yesmen and then we have to have a homework path package because that's what makes it worth worth doing. We don't want to waste our blink spells to draw the two cards. Now we need things to search for lands. Search for land.

[2:14:38] pipeline. Anything red, Whoops. Too late. Let's try again. I do know about weather wafer, which will be in this deck. But anything else we can search for lands with. No, no, no. These are all basic lands. Basic lands. Basic lands. There's Öza's cave. I think I can search for search. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Oh, this one searches for Yep. Basic clan. Basic clan. Basic clan. Weather wafer. Moon silver key searches for artifact or a basic.

[2:15:23] Basic escape Why? I want nonbasic. Well, I'm also looking for uh expedition So, oh, also my favorite card, Thematic Compass. My third favorite card. And uh because we are operating mostly at instant speed, so we can afford to activate this a lot. And yeah, again, getting land drops and also eventually getting a maze of VI is invaluable.

[2:16:07] surveyor gift hawk. Basic basic basic basic. Did I skip or is this cave? Not yet. Okay, I think I know what I'm looking for. So, I'm just going to search for them. The first one is called map. Boom. And then Beautiful. All right. And we have 43 nonland cards. We still need more card draw. We will see what options we have. We're going to draw cards. Draw a card. Can't be too ambitious here.

[2:16:48] Draw a card. Typeline. Doesn't matter colors. White or red. Go. think we're going to need some cards like desperate sentinel smothering tithe. We don't really need the one ring. We are pretty desperate for card draw. Maybe maybe it's good war room. absolutely. Now, do we want this card? We don't really have any synergy with this card, I don't think. So, no. Idol. Nope. Vanquisher whenever cast a creature spell. Nope.

[2:17:30] Nope. Lauren. It's a blank target and it draws us cards. It's not the best, but I think once again we are in Boros. Beggars can't be choosers. We don't have enough creatures to trigger this. I don't think enough small creatures. So, no. Seram. No. Valic awakening. Sure. Card filtering is good. Whenever archavist of all whenever opponent searches can't really rely on that do we wheel I don't think we do wheel is pretty wheels are pretty extreme I'd say I don't think so reprive no mangara opponent attacks with two creatures attacking you you draw a card this is not going to happen much but whenever opponent casts their second spell turn draw a card this is nuts right this will draw a lot of cards This is close to trouble to trouble in pairs which I will also play.

[2:18:26] Should I keep track of game changers? We have like three whatever we can adjust later. Throne of fra no can we afford colect? We cannot. Theas welcome one or more creatures you control mana three or less draw a card. No. No, no, no, no. Gearhulk. I don't I don't think this is good cuz your opponent will just take the damage. It's like five damage to one opponent. Unless your play group is super greedy. I don't think anyone will let you draw.

[2:19:07] So, no gear hulk lo whenever. Oh, it's artifact creatures. Never mind. Cut a deal. Each opponent draws a card then you draw a card for each opponent who drew this way. this and the secret rendevous from earlier for this set. Do we play them? We might just have to play them cuz the stuff we're doing is really powerful. We want gas. We want gas. Excuse me. Secret. No, no, no. This is not the one from Oh, this is Sorry. This is not from the new set, but it's in the new set.

[2:19:48] Jaxis, create a token. That's copy of target creature you control activate as sorcery. No cra this one coveted jewel again. This is like monarch where yeah I don't think we can defend it too well. We can defend our life total well but not our not our jewel. Draw card draw card draw card draw card. More more angel. Yeah. No, I think this is it for now.

[2:20:28] Right. This one smuggler share is not not that amazing. Yeah, I think this is it for now. We have 54. We are pretty close to completing the deck. Of course, we need some removals and board wipes, right? We need everyone. Everyone needs that. uh, I'll just Yeah, I'll just do it manually. Chaos path. Do we play paths? Exile source flasher. Boros.

[2:21:08] Do we defer protection? We're going all in. We are We are going bracket four with this. Uh, it's the best removal path. I still think it's Yeah, I think still think path and swords are worth it. That was a bad idea. That was not a good idea. Path two. Sorry. Path to exile. Don't be Really? Are you seriously? No way. This is No way this is true. I path to E.

[2:21:48] Oh my gosh. There you go. Thank you. Swears to shares. I swear. Okay, good. Generous gift. Maybe we want some slow blink just to protect our board. I was just thinking maybe what's that card called? interlude. Yeah, because the only our only weakness here is board wipe, right? We are pretty protected from most spot rules, but fast blink you you don't Yeah, you don't dodge word wipes.

[2:22:33] So, what's the other one called? Ghost Ghost way, I think. Ghost way. Okay, let's play two of these. Then board wipes. What are the best Farewell. Farewell is a game changer, but we're going deep. And also, I think the best one next to farewell is the one the instant speed one called with escalate. Can't remember, but we'll find it. Escalade. Yeah, we're just building this deck.

[2:23:20] Escalate. Oops. It is not escalate. It's Sorry. Pipeline instant. Destroy text spree and destroy. That should give us the destroy. Final final showdown. Yes, it's F. And what are there any creature board like? Destroy all. I'm going to give it try. Destroy all because if there is This is nuts.

[2:24:04] Oh. Oh, never mind. It's an org. There's one that's color. Give me the right colors and work awakening. There you go. But this one does not work with blink. So there you go. Some blast angel. Yes. This is sweet. I think that's it. Magnus does not work with blink. It works with slow blink. So no minen doesn't work but sun blast is sweet.

[2:24:45] Okay. Very happy about finding sunlast. Sunblast. Just last minute checking is there any other synergy. We're at 64 cards. So we'll have room for maybe one or two more cards. Treasure. Treasure synergy. No. Lifel link gain life synergy. We We'll do a quick check. Whenever you gain life, we can gain life pretty consistently with today. We gain life. Oh, wall of well of lost dreams.

[2:25:25] Is that worth playing? Might be. Not this. Not this. this. Whenever you gain life, whenever you gain life, well of lost dreams. So you blink something on your main face, you attack, you pay a lot of to it's really mana intensive, but late game might just get you back into the game. It's Is it better than Mind's Eye? Is it better than Mind's eye? I think it's better and there's some synergy. So I'm going to We'll have to test this one. I'll have to test. But I think that's it for life. G King Saturday.

[2:26:07] Oh, no. G of Gain draw or card. Draw a card whenever you gain life. It's not good enough. yeah. Exampler of light. Whenever you gain life, but no, it's too slow, I think, because we're not we're not even guaranteed one life a Whenever you can life put that many counters on, it's decent. Is that was No. Let me double check. Dawn of hope. What is What's the other ability? H create a one one white creature.

[2:26:51] It's like a mana sync. It's like a mana sync. But to use it, you have to basically sacrifice it. Attack and then pay two. I don't think it's good enough. Okay, last. We probably need more removals. Like whatever cards we we eventually find to be not pulling the weight, we will switch what switch for more interaction. But for now, we'll just make sure to think of let's think of are there any lands that can work with today aside from homework path link and haste. land that work with today.

[2:27:32] High market of because some creatures we just want to kill. Hi Mark. We are two hours 30 minutes into the video. I'm holding up. Okay. My voice is hurting a little bit but like my voice was hurting and then now it's not hurting anymore. Not sure this can't be good but but we are dedicated high market and uh something something mine is okay no advanced search it's called something mine field cory corey there you go lazep quy uh sack creature Yeah.

[2:28:25] What else can we sack a creature with? I'm going to just search for all lands that interact with creature. Can't be too many, right? Can't be too many. Land creature boros. Go path. No. No. No. No. Saga sources for No. Cavern souls. Sure, we can play some utility lens, but do we play maze of if is that good? It's not access tunnel.

[2:29:08] Nope. Draw a card. Make a token. We do want some mana things just because we are playing with a lot of mana open, right? because we plot a creature down and then we hold mana and sometimes often times we only need one creature on the field to to control the game. We need one creature like for examp mana and play reactively. Speaking of playing reactively, do we have enough ways to finish the game? Maybe we need another maybe another finisher or something. This molten primordial is okay, but okay, we'll look at lens first.

[2:29:52] Oh, this is a great card. Yeah, this is excellent. You can blink it. Oh, your Nope. Minus of Moria Manink. Sure. Yeah, we're not going to do Oh, tail talon gates. You know what? This goes into an earlier deck. So, it goes into what's his name? The landfall the the the the amulet blow commander minstrol. Yes, because you can keep using it, reusing it over and over. Okay. Sh. Yeah. Protection spell. It's good.

[2:30:34] Haven arcane. Do we want plus two individual ones? Nope. Do we want to make tokens? Yes, we No, I think that's it for lands. Think that's it. Okay. And now we need wind condition. What's a Boros wind condition? I guess insurrection. And there's synergy with it. So I guess we play insurrection.

[2:31:23] insurrection. No. And also just one more. What's that one that double strike and goes everything? That card is good, too. We're just messing with combat here. Double strike go spectacular showdown. Yes. Yeah. Now we are at 74 cards, but it's mostly lands that we're missing yet. This deck is again, I'm really excited for this. I might actually build this, but we have to move on to the next legendary. We are two hours and 36 minutes in. Okay, Cloud of Darkness. Oh, first of all, we will move Sedane. Sedane.

[2:32:08] What a pleasant surprise. Cloud of Darkness. So, this is our main character, Cloud, but dark and different gender. Alternate universe. Is this like a Venom kind of thing? Venom and Spider-Man? I don't know. We are the clout. Okay. Actually, this is this has nothing to do with cloud. I'm starting to think, but I like the first theory better. We are the cloud of darkness, bringer of wrath, and destroyer of light. Destroyer of light. Yeah, this I'm just putting the puzzles together, the puzzle pieces together.

[2:32:52] Uh, let's see what Cloud of Dark. This is a cool card with a cool flavor text. It better be good. Flying 33, five mana. Avatar Particle Beam. When Cloud of Darkness enters target creature and opponent controls gets minus X. This is not looking good. We're access five mana. We are killing a creature. That's it. That's it. That's all we're doing. So quite a drop off after Zedane. Maybe I can think of something like I did with Zedane. But are we playing a cloud blink deck? We are not. When you see a commander like this that doesn't do much, the safest bet is just to make a kind of a deck like imagine this.

[2:33:41] What kind of deck would this be in the 99? It wouldn't it wouldn't make the cut, but if it has to go in, it goes into something like a Marram deck, like a graveyard creature recursion deck, right? So, this is I'm guessing what we're going to build. And that's super easy, super fast. I think we have to speed up a little bit just because I think we've got like 30 more legends to Um, text and play the best creatures. There's one mechanic that cares about how many permanents there are in your in your graveyard.

[2:34:24] It's not descent. It's the one from the new Ramnikica block. I'll see if I can remember it, but probably not. So, yeah, I just play all the the Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Go, go, go, go. Yes. Sacrifice roaming throne. Not paper. Probably not. Uh, sure. Yeah. We're playing the Golgarity creature, great red deck, birthing pod, all that sage, grey merchant. Sure. Sure. This is super generic. We'll just take a quick look to see if there we can find some kind of unique synergy that is not just a generic graveyard deck. But I can't remember the name. Uh can I remember a card?

[2:35:05] I can remember a card that is a spider. It's green. It is seven mana. I should narrow it down. Spider that says that says graveyard. And it is seven mana. It is seven. There you go. Hat undergrowth. Okay. Now we search for undergrowth. Don't think we need color. Set the color here because it's a mechanic. Undergrowth. When you cast spell reveal atomic card where access the number of creature cards in your graveyard.

[2:35:50] put a green permanent with card converted mana cost when you it's it's not even when you when you when ETBs it's just not good. This one is good. Yeah, this one is fine. So I call it and creates tokens. So we will you know just to make the make this feel like a cloud deck we need to make have some self mill have some digging dredging or something like that and have some synergy. Lotless giant when it enters deals one damage target opponent for each creature card. So when it enters it will deal like five seven. No, not really. Moulder Hulk. This is not good. Moselium Secrets.

[2:36:32] This is not good but we'll play for for the theme. That's it. That's all. Yep. So we will move on. This is our deck. Like I I this is what we do if you really really have to build a character just because it's your favorite. But generally we won't have to do this. Most people won't have to suffer through this. So cloud o cloud dark cloud dark. Next up xdef this better be good. We have transform. Okay we won't look just yet.

[2:37:12] When X deck X death enters, you gain three life. This seems like why does he gain life? It's like a I guess plant-based person with an armor. No, this these are not plants. These are these like dark energy. This guy probably his armor probably speaks to him. He's not even bothered by it. He just talks to his And when what does he say? Maha. Okay. Maha. witness what befalls those who stand against me. I almost read it. Who stands against us? Then that would make But y let's see the flip side.

[2:37:55] All memories, dimensions, existence, all that is shall be returned nothing. Look at this transformation though. He turns into like everything. It's like horde of notions kind of bunch of beasts. So, so this armor is containing his power. So, he's actually a he's actually friendly. He's trying not to unleash the power, but then no, he's a dick because witness what befalls those who Yeah. Yeah. And then Okay. So, he's kind of just I don't know kind of going lowkey. And at the beginning of your end step, if there are six more permanence, is it permanence in again.

[2:38:36] It is the backside better be good. It's just a big dude, isn't it? It is. Which is fine because this is different than cloud. This is different than cloud because we we want to build around the commander more, which we want to self mill. We want to get things into graveyard quickly so that he will enter, flip, and beat people down. For this to be two shot, sorry, two shot, we need at least 11 power. So, we need eight permanency in graveyard. So, we need to do it really aggressively. And when we judge aggressively, there are things we can do to to use the graveyard. Again, the payoff is not quite good enough, but we are building around this.

[2:39:22] So, I mean, you can also build this just like cloud like with a control deck where this is the finisher. This is fine, but we want something a little bit different. So, we're searching for graveyard. We're putting things into graveyard. Uh, Whenever Conrad, whenever another creature dies, we're This is good because we're milling ourselves a lot. Void Walker. No in probably good.

[2:40:04] It's because yeah, bury alive. We are working with the graveyard a lot. Um, six. Is six good? Six is good cuz we can, our graveyard is like our hand, right? But we want, again, we want to start with mill cards, but I guess our search is a bit too broad. We'll see what we kind like griely salvage. This is the kind of card we want. Rest into your graveyard. Uh uh Marin Agent. Yeah. Sad wayfinder. This is the kind of card we want. Perpetual. No. What does this do?

[2:40:44] Ren reveal top four. Put all lands into hand. We want something faster. I think it's too slow. Is this faster? Mill three cards. Put a permanent card on. Oh yeah. This is good enough. Three mana underground lich. The kind of card we want. It's five mana, but the it's payoff is great. This also is the kind of card we want. Landing of dominaria. We get all of our lands back because we when we mill ourselves, we want to use our graveyard quickly. We don't want to. It will be gone soon. Yogas will I guess it's good. It's not amazing This I mean you're not storming off or anything.

[2:41:27] You're just casting cards. So, it's like a slightly better regrowth. Yes. Play lands. There you go. This is the YOLO variant we want. Maybe board. How do I Okay, maybe board. Hermit Druid. Yes, Hermit Druid is the kind of card we want in this deck. Okay, I think we got the point across. Oh. Oh, six fingers. That's cool. Sure. Okay. So, graveyard. And now we want some payoffs. Like there's a card that it's called harness something.

[2:42:08] Harness the eternity. No. Hardness. Harness. Jeez. Hard. Oh gosh. Harness. Don't even bother with the harness. Infinity. I'm glad I didn't put the in there. Exchange your hand and graveyard. Oh, this is the deck for for what's it called? Exchange your library graveyard. How do I search for it? No, here. Exchange library No.

[2:42:53] No. What's it called? Moral morality shift. I think it's the name. It's the name. I deck. You can tell we are three hours in. This is a marathon. Ah, this is why I am smart. Yeah, you do this and then you kill someone someone with your commander. Okay, we have a deck solid. I like it. Not the worst, unlike Cloud of Darkness.

[2:43:35] His name is Xaf. Next up, we have Gova. Gova, Ancient Calamity. This is an alien. Yo, she's got all this tech, these tubes and stuff. This is I don't see this often in Final Fantasy art. Let's see. What is she up to? Alien. She's probably pissed. Like, she probably cuz ancient calamity, right? So, she maybe created the world with technology and then the people decided to be like people decided to pick up magic.

[2:44:18] She's like, "Why? This is not what's supposed to happen." And then she comes back for vengeance. And then she's she controls a bunch of things. I guess mutants based on the text. Yeah. It looks like a cool character. Final Fantasy 17. No, no, seven. Sorry. Oh, it's in Final Fantasy 7. So, I will see her if I keep playing. Okay, that's tempting. All right. At the beginning of your combat, put a counter, a number of counters equal to power on up to one target creature. That creature becomes a mutant. Whenever mutant you control dice during your turn, you draw a card equals to power.

[2:45:02] Okay. So, we have to manipulate power. But do we do we want to be placing counters onto Genova? because we have to place counters onto Gova and then play a creature that cares about counters and then put the and then put counters onto that creature and then sack it. Now what do we do with the cards? So seems a bit convol if we just play large creatures, right? It's a lot easier. We will see how many counters matters creatures there are in Golgari. If there's a bunch of good ones, we'll do it.

[2:45:43] If not, we will see. We will see. Okay. So, counters matter and power to power then it has to be a creature. Is this wording right? Equal to power. I so. That's a good one. We'll place it here for now.

[2:46:28] Old stick. No, it's not good. Lord of Extinction is good. Doesn't care about power. I mean, doesn't care about his own power, though. Michael Tyrant when for each time you descend. Oh, this goes into my other deck. Goes into Exodath X. Cool, cool, Sling. Oh, I I'll just search for Gary. Sorry. Next time I won't do this. I Power, power, power. Add mana equal to power.

[2:47:09] Drain equal to power. This one is good except it drains your opponent. We don't want that. Drinks I mean drains target opponent. Not all opponents. Power. This we do want. Sack equal to power. Golding hydra. Sweet. Sweet. Oh, we want Lumra in uh we want Lumra in Acadef. Got to bring those lands back. But okay, green sleeves. Nope.

[2:47:49] Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Power enters or attacks. So you pump it. I'm not sure we have enough payoff for power. This is a payoff. That's good. Guff triplets is a decent payoff. say yeah, because it's pretty convoluted. It's convoluted. Farewell gold. We can play a bunch of counters onto it. That's good. It's fine. How many counters realistically can we put? How big can we make our commander realistically?

[2:48:31] Not that big, right? Okay, we'll skip this for now. But if we can we have enough ways to make our commander huge, then we'll it. This is not immigrant body launderer. It's okay. It's not great. So, yeah, the payoff for equal for equal to power is not there's not a lot.

[2:49:13] I'll try with counters uh for each counter. Twitch doll I don't see anything. Oh, blood tracker. Okay, blood tracker is good, but it's like we're drawing already.

[2:49:58] What are we going to do with all the card draw? Wait, these are in the wrong deck. So, Oh, I know. I know. we play pump spells because the spells that place counter are terribly inefficient. But if we play pump spells, pump spells are inefficient. I mean, the ones that place counters are inefficient in terms of mana, but pump spells are bad for in terms of value, card advantage. But we don't care because we Yeah, because we we get that card back.

[2:50:45] I like that. I like this idea. Okay, we're doing it. Instant sorcery. Green mostly. Oh, green. Black has some. Black has some. So, we're going to do plus target plus. This can be fun. Um, never mind. Why? What did I do? Oh, instant and sorcery. Ha. Ha. And we want some protection for our commander because our commander is going to smack people.

[2:51:26] It's going to get big. Um, tie bar stand. Yes. GS gift. Sure. Thank battle. Revitalizing pass. Sure. Why are we getting I want pump spells. Why are we getting protection spells? Fame death. No. To be fair, this is a pump and also brings our creature back. We'll place we'll play these later. For now, we want just straight up pump like this over protect. We want bigger pump though. We want we want to go greedier. So, we're playing pump and protection.

[2:52:10] Sorry, I was putting blue blossoming defense. Uh, thanks of Colonia. Then double the counter. But my commander doesn't have counters on it, so maybe not. Now this is good. This is good. thirst. Is this good? Or does he confluence? Let's see. equal to Genova's power up to one target no, invigorate is good.

[2:52:52] Adraic confluence is not not amazing. I think vines is good. We want instance. Berserk. Ruinous intrusion is good. I think giant grove. Sure, it's good. Yeah. So then we pump our commander to pump the other creatures. This way when we draw a bunch of cards, we can voltron with our commander or we just kill people with creatures. So then we play something like big.

[2:53:34] We play big creatures that can people. Ink puff nexus. This kills people. And also we want something like overwhelming stamp just because makes stampede. And next is What's it called? Psychics. Yes. Sacrifice a creature.

[2:54:18] I don't want instant sorceries. No. No. Go Gary. Yeah, we do. We do want mana. Yes. Fant tower. Yes. Mercer here. I don't like this card too much just because it sacks. Sure. But the doesn't do that much and you need to play a creature. You need to play Mercer here. We'll see if there are better ones. Fatar is good. Void walker is good.

[2:54:59] Void Walker is good because he himself, is it? There's no synergy with the rest of the deck though. High market dementia alter dementia. We don't need to mill right. Carryan feeder grave pack playcfter children. Where's uh crater? Uh do we need to draw that many cards? I guess we do just because like as a backup to our commander there. This the kind of cycle that we want instead of asser Yagmoth. Yes. Although we don't really need more card draw, but we can blur for eight.

[2:55:43] Okay. This is our deck. I think it's solid. I think it's solid. The winning the game is a bit iffy. Like how are we going to win? We're going to play a bunch of pump spells in Voltron or kill people with just kill people with card advantage and big dumb things. Yeah, I think it's fine. Let's uh add one more. The the the goat something something ibex ibex ibex ibex pathbreaker. Yes. There you Next.

[2:56:24] What is this? This is Oh, this one melt is melted into by the two I think two monocolor legendaries. So, we will save this for later when we go to monocolored. Okay. Shanto, tactician magician. This seems like the brat that nobody wants to deal with, but you have to because it's the quest. Okay. Yeah. And what do they Okay. Oh ho ho. Of course works. It's like ma maha. Oh ho ho. Yeah. Clever. I might be the harshest mistress in all of Venadel, but I may yet forgive you if you my feet.

[2:57:12] You're like, come on. Come on. It's like the character is probably not bad, not evil, but just annoying. Whenever you cast a non-creature spell, Shanto gets plus X plus zero until the end of turn. We're X is the amount of mana spent to cast the spell. X is four more. I hate it cuz what are you going to do, Voltron? So, you're paying cuz you can't even cheat. You can't even cheat this. It doesn't look at the CMC. Looks like the It looks at the mana spent.

[2:57:56] Yeah. So there's you have to spend 10 mana a turn, seven mana a turn just to just to get it to work to get it to attack for something. And then and then what does it do? Yeah, I don't think Voltron is going work. The second ability is still not good, but I think we're going to have to build around it. Wait one second. We're moving this This deck is What's her name again? Gova.

[2:58:37] Shanto. Why? Why didn't you move? There you go, Shanto. Yeah. No, I I I can't think of anything to do with this. We just have to do like is it good stuff deck with power four with X is four or more and we can't even we can't even play cost reducers. It does say none creature but yeah. No, hopefully this is the one crap uncommon that we have to deal with.

[2:59:21] But we are dealing with it now. Not 4 for maximum value. We want to minimize. We want to play four Uh four. the one ring. Uh, sure. Stuff like big score can good.

[3:00:01] Big score is just a great card. I mean, along with the other one, I forgot the name. Yeah, Etherize. So, we're just playing, what are we doing here? We're playing a four mana spell every turn. to just to control the game, I And I guess Shanto works well with cards like like what's it called? Chundraas invasion. Tundra's ignition, sorry. Any other card like that? I don't think so. Tous Ignition. Well, I mean, there are there are a few more cards similar.

[3:00:44] There's one on the new set. him. Hopefully it will get us there. How many he magic? A few apparently. There we go. Nibbleheim. But this one is only four damage, but it could could be seven. Okay. And do we have anything that synergizes with four mana spells mana. Oh, there's a ether vial for spells, isn't there? Bring in a jar, called.

[3:01:26] It's terrible, probably, but because we want to have a little bit of theme for a charge counter, we have to do cast an instant sorcery converted mana cost. So, we need to charge it once, twice, thrice, and then we get a free spell kind of. We'll play it just because we are desperate for some kind identity. And look for Whoops, sorry. Four mana.

[3:02:06] Not looking good. Four mana. Four mana. Four mana. Four mana. No. Is this good? Oh, this is a mechanic of the set. I guess we're playing them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. We'll read this later, but I mean, has to be good, right? Has to be good. Wait, this is also at least four mana. Create a treasure token Seriously, terrible.

[3:02:48] And this selfie so bad. Uh, this one, four mana, tap Eight mana. Put eight counters on it. We're not going to get to eight mana, but four Fine. I want a different Shanto, get out of here. Now we are into the four mana. Yeah, the four mana tribals. Tella, great sage. Whenever you cast an uncreious spell, create. See, at least this is good, right?

[3:03:29] If four or more mana spent, draw two. Okay, this is good. It's just strictly better. And this one, we don't have to do four mana tribal cuz if eight or more mana was spent to cast this spell, sacrifice ta if eight mana or more mana deals that much damage to each opponent. Okay, how are we doing this? Um, so I think it's just a spell slinger deck and then late game we can win. We can win with Tela. And how we win is we store mana and late like we control the game, store mana, and late game we cast one massive spell like 15 mana, 20 mana spell, and then your opponent can't even respond to like because the triggers on stack.

[3:04:27] I think this works. Yeah, we will play generic spells. Oh, I know. Because you're create you're creating tokens. So something like, you know, Ash's altar, altars. Might regret this again. I'm not Am I regretting it? Almost. Yep. Every time I'm lazy. Actually, this time it's okay. This time okay. We got the two altars. And sacrifice creature get mana. Uh, creature creature mana. See if we can do that.

[3:05:12] Yeah. Control the board, create a bunch of tokens, and then eventually eventually go nuts with hopefully convert them into mana and go nuts with Ta. Tella creature mana. Creature mana. Creature mana. Doesn't seem like we have anything here. Are these artifact tokens? They're colorless tokens. Nope.

[3:05:52] Doesn't seem like we have too many options. So, we are going to play spells that create treasures probably. probably. Yes. Okay, we're going Treasure. That's all. Yeah. Go nuts. Vic score. Oh, of course. Storm fl artist.

[3:06:33] Sure. Are we playing? Are we playing a lot of small spells? We are. Actually, we might not be doing that. Might not be doing that. We'll see. We'll see because this is not worth it unless we're playing a decent amount of small spells. Do we want to? No. This is way more unexpected windfall. Gold spend dragon. Probably play it just because Oh, wait. Tell us noncreature spell. Do we play the dragon? Yeah. Kind of win more. I'd say sacrifice treasure vault. Absolutely. This the kind of stuff that stores help us store treasure. Uh sworn.

[3:07:15] Yeah. Mines. Yes. Seize the spoils. Three mana. No. No. Prismari command. No. Brass's bounty is almost eight mana sub mana but I think it's still sorcery like once you do it your opponents know what you're going to do right so it's too on the nose and you have to tap out for it usually bhord draosaur oh this is good yeah you can just attack people with your tokens and get a bunch of treasures How many can we get?

[3:07:57] We one, two, three, four extra combat and then two star opponent. Yeah, but it doesn't really fit our theme, but you can draw two cards if you do it. It's fine. I think it's fine. Ring of Yeah. Fight for benitry. Hit the motherload. This cover card is six. No, Coronto vault is good because we are not a treasure deck. So, I don't think we are going to play too many.

[3:08:38] We just want to play the best ones that make treasure and then we move on to other ways to make mana. Yeah, this is the one I was waiting for. Anything else? I think we're good for now. And then now we want big mana cards like manager card is nuts in commander manager and then we are just playing because in this case it's worth it to play four mana spells but ideally you want them to be instance because you don't want to tap out. So once again we search for some four mana spells.

[3:09:20] Do we have them here? don't cost stat value four non Nice cor in ether flux. No ether eyes. Yes. Yes. The same factor fiction. Sure, it's decent. Distant melody is good because you get to draw a lot of cards with the heroes.

[3:10:00] Is your commander a hero? He is not. He's a human wizard. This guy seems like the kind of wizard that probably doesn't live for the entire game because he's too powerful. Helps you a little bit and then gets betrayed backstabbed by I don't know this guy, I guess. Yeah, it looks super powerful. The great sage. Yeah, probably lives in the library. Tries really hard to not burn down. Yeah, that's the that's the trope thinking. Tefairy, angels, insight, distant melody, mindbreak, trap, chain reaction, layline le I think we want Yeah.

[3:10:47] So, right now, good stuff. I don't think I don't think we need to look at too much. But the problem here is the problem here is we don't still don't have enough things to build towards the late game. But because we are drawing cards, drawing a lot of with our commander, I can we can afford to ramp a fair bit. yeah. Add And we can go a bit greedier than with some of the other decks just because I mean look at form of alrain or find animal.

[3:11:31] It draws you two cards, right? not? Why not? form seems a bit windon same thing doesn't work no to lotus sure okay ving let's put that in okay although this one to restrict the color, but it's still pretty good, I think.

[3:12:13] Is it man chosen color? Yeah, we just say for red or something. Uh, but then that second No, never mind. I think it's a bit too limiting. So, yeah. What else can we add? Oh, we want ways to we want to waste the wind with our tokens, of course, because we're making a decent amount of tokens. Not a ton. We're not really storming off with a small spells. Although we do have to put in some smaller spells for interaction and stuff. So we are what's the what are some cards that can pump tokens? Not sure. Creatures get plus enter type doesn't matter.

[3:13:17] no creature. Oh, I was thinking there are some overrun effects here. There are some. So maybe I will limit it to instance and sorceries. sorcery or sorcery. Sorry. There you go. Hazel Rage. Except we wait does buyback count towards the mana cost mana you spend. I think it So if you just buy back, you draw two cards, make a token.

[3:14:04] You can do it twice a turn maybe, but it's not in the pump. I don't think this is what I'm looking for. Exile target instance sorcery creatures control get plus X plus O. Yeah. Yeah, that's the kind of card. Pyatic charge discard your hand. Draw four cards for recurs. It's decent. Can plot it for later. It's decent. But plot doesn't synergize with our commander Fine. And also we need big spells for ending the game with.

[3:14:45] So we need X. No. Oh X. Oh, it doesn't work. Meta cost has X. Does that Nope. Where X is? Uh, no. How about ah, how do we search for X? I don't know. How about criteria? X spell.

[3:15:28] Okay, we'll search it in two ways. X cards. I am stuck. There you go. We did it, boys. We did it. Pull from tomorrow. Finale of Revelation on top five. This is good. Explosion because it's also a burn spell.

[3:16:11] Now our commander will just die. Yeah. Can we bring it back with something? We cannot. We cannot. Uh, no. Okay. Convo doesn't work because it's we have to pay the mana unfortunately. Improvise does work, but these are not winning the game. These are just Yeah, I'm not sure we want too many of these. Think we cut a few. Let me cut surveillance.

[3:16:51] What we want is the X burns though. So X damage deal X damage. Yeah, Kraco. Absolutely. Comet definitely. Inferno. Yes, I think that's enough. We have a few And oh, my favorite red card from my Red Burn deck. Where is it?

[3:17:32] Molten Disaster. Now, this card, if you kick it and cast it, your commander's ability goes on the stack, but your opponent cannot respond to any this, right? So, you're guaranteed pretty much to get whatever. Let's say you do this for 10. X is 10. X is 10. You kick it. You're guaranteed to get 13 damage to your opponent from your commander and then 10 more damage. 23 damage. So, this is sweet. Yeah. Now that we have the big X spells, I think we have a deck. I think we have a deck. This will need a lot of tuning. We have to figure out the ratios and stuff, but play some removals, play some interaction, maybe some counter spells, and yeah, solid.

[3:18:15] the emperor of Palamia. Okay. What is his thing? Uh, it's an emperor. Probably this guy's boss, but less relevant, less important in the story, and he's not happy about it. He wants to be important. So, yeah, the Lord Master of Hell. Yeah, he's pissed. All the world shall fall by my hand. Cool. At see this is already good. Add mana. Spend this mana only to cast non creature spell.

[3:18:55] So you're guaranteed a four drop spell on turn three basically. And then rewards playing four drop spells. Is the reward good? At least four mana was spent to cast it. Put a plus one counter on emperor. If there are three or more transform, it's not terrible. It's not terrible. What is the backside? Whenever the Lord master of hell attacks, it deals X damage to his opponent. This reminded me I need to add one more card to tell which is needs is in both this and TA. It is a land. Can you clink.

[3:19:41] Yeah, it will just gain you all the life back goes to Ta. I will now move Ta. Sorry, not TA. I'll move. Yes, TA. Why? category and the clinic also goes into the lord master the emperor. Okay, so how is the emperor different than tala is the question. We play some four mana spells. No problem.

[3:20:22] We got those. Honestly, we still have them probably. Oh, we don't. But aside from that, guess counters deals X damage or X number of creature nonline cards. Okay, so this is different. We want to be aggressively dumping things into our graveyard, right? Where X is number of non-creature and nonline cards in your graveyard. And there's a way to do that. Now, we want it we want to transform him really quickly, aggressively, and then start shooting your opponents. So, how do we transform this guy quickly? The ramp does help.

[3:21:04] Can we just place counters onto him? Yeah, because it's a lot of spells we have to cast. So, plus one counter. And with red and blue, probably not much. Although we can proliferate. That's an option. Spark double. That's one way to it. Uh if you spend this mana to cast your commander, it enters. Yeah, Opalis is a good card for this deck. Can replace target legendary creature gets a counter.

[3:21:46] I think it's Is it worth it? I mean, with this mana, we can just cast we just cast another four mana spell, right? It's like this cost three mana. So, maybe not. Except is this a god? If there's some god synergy here, it is Okay. Door of destinies metallic mimic creatures counter slip out the back. This is protection and counter. This is Essence Flux it. This one removes the counters though, so it's less good.

[3:22:27] Um, crime novelist not good. Choose target commander of that Yeah, I guess lens lands help, but aside from that, there's not too much. Um, yeah, we don't have too much. So then what do we do? We have to find some proliferate Okay.

[3:23:07] Hopefully four mana. Carbastian. Again, we're not paying this mana for free. It's not worth it. Flux channeler on the other hand is perfect because it helps us get two counters per spell. Yeah, Tazarus Gambit. We can Yeah, we can pay four mana, pay the full mana cost. We will do that. Inexorable tide is probably not as it could. We can pump our commander. Yeah, but it's too expensive and it's too slow. Look at the top three cards. Put them into your hand. But one of the Oh, that's so good. Okay. Tech cuall. Does this do anything? Proliferate twice.

[3:23:49] No. Repulse of potential. This protects our commander and proliferates. Yeah, just what we need. Dream tie. Well, this proliferates like crazy. It's also a big body. I think it's fine. I think it's fine. It's three mana though. I guess we can still benefit from flip even after flipping. Not as much but not much. Turn two commander turn three. No, it doesn't doesn't work so well with the curve. Contentious planer draw a card. Then the question is why don't we just like if it's just for the periphery, why don't we just play uh a four mana spell, right?

[3:24:37] So, let's not do that just yet. Around Storm. Okay. I think we don't we can't really depend too much on place encounters. So, some four mana spells. Now, does this deck play different four mana spells than these two decks? Let's see. On turn three, we play this. Turn four, we will play I think we'll play very controlly, very responsive. Yes. Like the moment we untap with this, we are defending our commander because the commander provides us with a win condition.

[3:25:18] And it's not a bad one. We'll see. But yeah, we so we are playing all the counter spells at four mana. Uh so mana not equals to four. Uh we will consider four and fives. Four uh greater than four, three, a mana value less than six. Sure. Let's do four and fives for now to see because there are some good fives and we don't want we just want instance. I'm pretty sure. Yeah, we just want instance cards with flash. We will look at both force of world doesn't trigger.

[3:26:05] Yes, this is the kind of card again. When we don't end up casting a counter spell, we play it and it's so we don't waste the mana and it's and we get a store we get a store of mana which is excellent. So factor fiction. Sure. Bolt bend. We we don't have the option to pay the full mana cost if our commander gets big. So no rewind. Excellent. Confluence. Yes. Evacuation. No. Virtue. No. Cryptic command. Sure. Sure. Why not? Desynchronization. Sure. C double this. This is great because you can choose to copy or counter or both, right?

[3:26:46] Maybe both. Spell. Excellent. Rtorm. Not excellent. Behold. Yes. We're never going to forell it, but even just for four mana, this is a pretty good card. Access denied. Sure. I mean, Archcomander is a man rock, so that helps a lot. Maybe we don't even play Manor Rock in this deck. Just the entire deck is four mana spells and eventually two four mana spells a turn. So then, okay. So now we have this and once he untaps, we are going to play protection spells.

[3:27:26] We have a few here, but not enough protection spells. I guess these cards are protection. The counter spells are protection spells. But we're going to play pump spells. Do we have efficient pump No, we don't play. We play mill. We play self mill. That's what we're doing. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't care about the Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Self mill first card to finish the game. Traumatize and then target player male.

[3:28:24] Merlock Queen. No. We need to move for a lot. Amass orex cards were X's amass or no psychic spiral. No. No. No. Really? Where's I guess all the mill is for opponents because traumatized is too broken. So we are not self-milling. We are are we wheeling? No, I don't think we wheel we we have to uh how do we do it into the graveyard cards? So we want how many let's say how many we want in our graveyard.

[3:29:13] 10. Another way to do it is just play the control game and pressure with our commander. But that's a bit slow. I think like your opponents will eventually catch up to you. So, I do think we want some more aggressive cards, maybe more loot. Okay, let's try this into the Uh, any type. Any type I guess non creature ideally. Okay, let's take out creature. I mean, there could be some good male creatures out there.

[3:29:55] Can I think of any? I cannot. Into the graveyard. Uh why? Oh, sorry. We've got the mana cost and the creature restriction wrong. So, Z go. See how well we can do here. This will determine if our deck is a meme or actually the dream factory fiction. Okay, we play lots of Yeah. draw spells that dump into the But intuition intuition, it's not great. Commit echo.

[3:30:36] Nope. Tongue twister. sanity. Search for at camp. No, it's not the kind of card we need to go fast. Yeah, I think we need to go faster otherwise this video will be five hours. It will be five hours actually. So, uh, and that with that actually five hours for the multicolored I I have I'm going to have to take a break after multicolored, but I will do monocolor in a few days. Well, yeah, even just multiolor is a five hour video easily. So, good times. Good times. If you're still here, honestly, if you're still here, thank you. Thank you. You're probably asleep, but thank you.

[3:31:18] hear this in your dreams. I love Okay. Yeah. Stuff like strategic planning is decent. Wait, does this say none? Our commander says non creature nonland. Let's see. Epiphany at the Drown Yard. wait. It's okay. Psychop factory fiction.

[3:31:59] I was hoping for more cards like strategic planning, but I don't I'm starting to think that we don't have it. So, it looks like we just have to play a of controlling everything. everything. At least four mana was spent to cast a polifous encounter if that's three. Yeah, the synergy here isn't anymore. But you can traumatize to win on the spot. But aside from that, where x number n in your self.

[3:32:41] Oh, I forgot something. I forgot to when I did the mail, I didn't search for all the mail cards. Each. No, not each. Just mail. Just mail. And see what Okay. All tarp dimensia doesn't do much here. Me whenever opponent takes micro orb. Yes, this is the kind of milk card we want. Thought scour. Absolutely. Yes.

[3:33:22] Yes. Age player male fractured. No. Yeah. This drowned in the dreams. This is the kind of card you want. Uh No. No. Roundre. Nope. Frame. You can enchant yourself, but we don't have that many mill cards. Okay, I think this is fine. We try to push through damage. We try to mill to accelerate it. And if we don't, we can still keep up in the late game. In the late game, our gets our our commander does get better as long as we don't get greater or hate it, you know, as the game goes. So, decent.

[3:34:03] Next up, VV or a tier. I have an entire video about this, so I'm not going to go deep, but basically we're playing pump We Yes. Draw uh plus plus something, right? We want and low cost less than three. How about four? And then instant sorcery because that triggers Vivv's ability. Does it?

[3:34:44] Oh, it's non creature spell. So, equipments could work too, but for now, we're doing instance and sorceries because they pump for more. For this this is actually for later on, but this is excellent for killing people with Vivv. That's her deck. But first, we move Select all the emperor. Okay, time for Eevee. Fist of flame. Siege smash. Sure. Split second.

[3:35:25] Titan strength. Crescendo is not plus three is okay. Brute force, you know, all these pump spells. All these pump spells plus two, but treasure token. Okay, I'll take it. Monsters rage, even better. Yeah. And then once we do that, we play big draw spells because it can make blue mana. So again, draw X Why? What did I do wrong? Oh, the name. We smart. Nope.

[3:36:05] Wrong. Wrong. Wrong. Ashley is fine. I think we're fine. We are not fine. Hello blue. There you go. So once we pump EV's power to pretty high, we can make say 10 mana a turn. Then we hope for tomorrow revelation doesn't matter. face. Brousan is not that efficient anymore, but sure, we play it. You know, all these cards might spring. And then we have a huge VV. And what we do is we play evasion spells like slip through space.

[3:36:48] Yeah. And your opponent will be dead really fast. Also some interaction, you know, counter spells, protection spells, and offer. This deck sounds really fun to play. VV is super expensive now apparently, but still this the rest of the deck is cheap. Again, I have a video about this and building budget decks. So, please take a Viv, we are done with is it now we are on to what is this called? Origin. Yes, Magister Gaby. This guy probably never leaves his armor.

[3:37:29] Probably showers and sleeps in armor. Never seen a bed that is not made stone. Yeah, this guy is hardcore. Let's see if the abilities are hardcore menace. Whenever another creature or artifact you control dies, put plus one plus one counter on judge. It's terrible. I slew your king. I slew your country. Do these deeds not demand vent. So what? So he the character he's like I killed I I committed crime and I should be judged. It's like does he regret what he did? But he doesn't want to kill himself because closure reasons.

[3:38:09] So waiting for the challenger to finish him. We have some we have a lot of but then we have menace. So we are avoiding combat. We have like multiple personalities at work here. And meanwhile, the card is garbage. What do you do whenever a creature artifact you control dies? Oh, congratulations. You You get a plus one counter. Try to build around I Yeah, I guess we can place lots of sacrifice aristocrats and then finish with our commander. Is there a better way? Is there a better way? I don't think so.

[3:38:57] aristocross. Oh, but I want to do something different. I want to do something different. It's It can grow to a decent sight as a threat, but it seems like Yeah, just a finisher like a like a crappy finisher in a aristocrat deck. So creature honestly just search for all the forats. Just search for all the permanence that are less than non-land permanence that are less than three mana, less than four mana, let's say. And then oh, also not land, not instant, not sorcery, not sorcery.

[3:39:47] Wait, where? Ah, there it is. Boom. And then play the best ones in orov. It's like that's the one thing or does in orov. Okay. Let's also add Oh, the artifacts might be useful actually like skull clap, right? So, play them all. Play them all. Jump. Jump. Play them all. Yay. Yay. Not this one.

[3:40:31] Sure. We do want indestructible because when someone board wipes or when we do, the commander stays and it's huge. So that's a thing, you know, have synergy. Play. Sure. This is good. Yeah. Don't think there I don't think you'll be all familiar with aristocrats judge. That's judge magister. Select all. Interesting personality but boring Judge. Next. Roffus Shinra. Let's hope this is good.

[3:41:11] It's a guy with a dog. Like he's he acts all cool and powerful and then he lets the dog do the fighting. He's only a two four. Yeah. But his name is Shinra. Shinra is a special name. I know that. I control the world. I'll control. Okay. So he already controls the world. It takes too much to do like my old. So yeah, the basically the the prince the new ruler except he still has to fight with his dog for some Can't just send his mechs or mercenaries. Whenever Rufus Shinra attacks, if you don't control a creature named Darkstar, create Dark Star a legendary. Oh gosh, this is even worse maybe.

[3:41:56] Do we play aggro? Like when So like when when I don't know what to do, I go for aggro. I mean, it's decently aggressive, right? Two for No, it's not. Do you play aristocrats? Because he makes a count. He makes a token every turn. 30 seconds. I'll give it 30 seconds. Named Dark Star. Create dark star. A legendary plus two plus two or two two dog. I think it's better in Aristocrat just because it's like a crappy bitter blossom that makes a token every turn for you to sack.

[3:42:38] All right, guess we're back at Yeah, I'm just doing this for people who don't watch the video but want to see list. So, you're asking why are you why are you placing the same ramp artifacts into five different decks? This is why cuz people probably won't be watching the video, the full video at least. Whoops. Yeah. So, I just just so they know we are doing we're doing aristocrats. Let's add a few more. Anything for synergy? Nope. All right, let's go to Squall.

[3:43:19] This guy is Rufus. Roffus. It's a goofy name. Roffus. Squall. C D seed mercenary. This is like the mirror character of our of Cloud. He's from Final Fantasy 8. So, it's like Cloud but black but dark. Maybe it's got some conflicts, internal turmoils, internal struggles. It's like, do I kill people or do I help people or do I help people by killing people? I'm guessing this is what he's doing here. Whenever a creature you control attacks alone, it gains double strike. Whenever squall deals combat damage to a player, return target permanent card with mana value three.

[3:44:00] Okay, this is not bad. Yeah, again we I don't want to do Voltron again just because we are this is a worse Voltron commander than the Boros ones, but we can play we can play like recursion because we're getting two things back a turn as long as we keep Squall, you know, protected and unblocked. So yeah, we can Okay. Okay. So what we're going to do is we're going to pile things into the graveyard first. or play cards that want to die. The first cards I can think of are Boromir, and there's one more.

[3:44:53] There's a legend from from Stricks Haven. Haven. I forgot the name. Why don't we just play cards that themselves? Yeah, let's do that. Sacrifice or sacrifice others could be decent. Oh, we want CMC three or less value less than four. Okay. Let's go.

[3:45:37] Burnish cart. Why not? White Walker. Yes. Yeah, we're just getting value. And we can dump things to things into the graveyard. We can try, but we cannot depend on it too much because in mono black we don't I don't think we have too many cards for that. Yeah, definitely. Definitely these ranger captain. We'll see about this one. We'll see if we There are enough one drop for us to Warren, sure. Flashbag. Sure. Are yara? Maybe not. A cursed. Yes. Commando.

[3:46:22] Um. Okay. Now that we have creatures that sacrifice them, I think we don't need to put them all. They probably all can go in, but again, we are. Yes, we need cards that protect our commander. Selfless savior. Sir Ginger. That's not good. Not great. Sacrifice a food. Fang. Sacrifice a creature. Nope. We need you to sacrifice yourself. The priest does it. The priest can bring back. This is like a loop with squall, right?

[3:47:03] Yeah. So, the priest is good. Tasa. No. Necrotic sliver destroyer. I think mana. It's not too bad. It fits the deck, I think. Ruthless sacrifice a creature when you do. Yeah, that's a good card. Has to sacrifice another creature, but it should be fodder. Maybe not. Should be fers. I good card. I'm waiting for uh I'm actually waiting.

[3:47:47] Okay, this Kami is good. Yeah, Kami is good. I'm waiting for this card, benevolent bodyguard. Like, it's terrible in most decks, but in this deck, I think it makes sense because it protects your commander. And this one, Valentine, can repeatedly destroy opposing commanders. Yeah. Is that good? It's okay. And then, oh, wait. There's one more here. Werew. What does it do? Word fox. Nothing. Okay. Then we want permanents that sacrifice So can we search for permanent? We cannot.

[3:48:28] So in not instant, not Sorcery. I I'm giving up. I'm not thinking straight anymore. Not sorcery. Not instant. Yes. And low mana. Yes. Oops. Taking a look at lands. Of course. I think yeah, the lands are fine. Mind stone is fine.

[3:49:10] We want Yeah, commander sphere is fine. And in this deck, I think we want all the fetches. all the uncolor fetches. Yeah, because just getting that ramp is huge when you have nothing else to bring back. Great reverse bottle. Sure. Fable passage. Okay, you get the idea. But we want we want to look for some other cool permanence. Oh, and also commander beacon and the commander so that you're never paying commander tax Sure. Why are we still looking at I don't want a creature. I don't want Creature not good.

[3:49:53] Whoops. Sorry. Sort by set. What's set review? Is that like a limited review? We will see. Lotus would have been nice. Map down. We don't want lands. We want Treasure map codeex shredder etching sacrifice a creature of the chosen type. No, not great seal. That's fine. Not good enough. Cathonian nightmare.

[3:50:34] Sacrifice a creature. Return target creature. This is good. This is good. Yeah, because we're we're a low cost permanence deck. Being able to bring bring back two permanence a turn is just so good. So good. I don't see many permanence that are super worth bringing back. Yes. So I think I think Oh, solitary confinement is a lock. Absolutely. You won't never take damage A spell bomb. Sure. Use it on your Yeah.

[3:51:15] Oh, oblivion stone. That's good. In a pinch, we can wipe the board. Okay. Y 37 cards in also. We need to look at ways to pile the graveyard. So, into the graveyard. Into your graveyard. And I think in this case we want yeah we want all types and we don't want to limit the amount of cost for this not this the CMC.

[3:51:55] All right. Nope. Intomb. Yes. Part of life 100%. A tumor. It's okay. Not the best, but I'm looking for ways to pile our graveyard. I'm sure there are some here. Demonic Council. Nope. Some backup for a commander. Once you can play a land, cast a permanent spell with mana three or less, but if you do, it is not coming back again. Is that worth it?

[3:52:37] Might be worth it. Might be just a crappy, really crappy backup for a commander. Okay. Yeah. Exile the top three cards. Hostile negotiations. Exile top three cards. Look at the cards in each pile choice. Yeah. This is the kind of card we might want to play. Come back round. Back for seconds. Back for seconds. Bargain. Yes. class. Yeah, good. Okay. Yeah, I think I think Oh, we also need we have some protection for our commanders for our commander, but we all know we need to get through, right?

[3:53:23] So, something like this will be perfect. Whoops. costume. Yeah. And then myth coat. Get indestructible. Protect him. Yeah. We have a deck. Every turn. We're getting two things back with our commander. Seems reasonable. We're not really utilizing the double strike thing because I I don't think black and white has a lot of damage trigger cards. I could be wrong, but this is good. All right, we are Squ.

[3:54:11] Hey, we are on to Celestnia, Garnet, Princess of Alexandria. This is the one character that does all the wind uh the waving around. all the colorful magic, but in the end it heals for two HP. Yeah, someday I will be queen, but I will always be myself. Wow, really edgy. Lifelink. Whenever Garnet attacks, you may remove a lower counter from each of many any number of sagas you control. Put a plus one counter on Garnet. For each lower counter, remove this way. There is no other way to build this. The plus one counter payoff is not good enough.

[3:54:54] But the only thing you can do here is to make sagas trigger again and again the same chapter. So the only thing we're doing here is to play some enchantments energy enchantress and then we're playing sagas and we we're I mean I don't know how many saga options we have but if we have choices we're going to play the ones that where you want the same chapter to trigger over and over saga. This should be easy saga. No, no, it's eight mana.

[3:55:35] That's cool. We'll play it cuz we want I mean the second ability is kind of kind of nice, right? It's pumping your commander to to be massive. The man of Dominaria. Nope. Exile target permanent. Yes. Search for a legendary creature. Sure. I mean, we got these creatures. This one is fine. Sure. I don't think we have too many sakas. So, we're playing them all. Uh, draw a card. No. Additional land. Nope. No. Target creature gets plus one.

[3:56:16] Mico. Nope. Jugan defense. Nope. Okay. Are we How many do we have? Okay, we have quite a few. Quite a few. We won't be looking at all of them. Just a a few examples of the best options. Jurassic Park. Nope. Oh yeah. No. Doesn't do anything. Weather seed treaty. Search for a basic land ramp. sure. Battle tokens. Nope. Binding. Nope. Battle at the hell. You can keep exiling things. six mana, but we want to create a eventually, right?

[3:56:57] So, no, you search for a planes put into your library. Your opponents each draw two cards. This one, this is fine. Draw cards. Nope. Target creature indestructible. Return target creature from the battlefield. It's okay because first and second ability you want to keep triggering two counters exile permanent from graveyard gain life number this one the world spell you want the last ability so no the henceman nope the knight of the doctor destroy no this will exile your commander follow the First civilization more draw.

[3:57:51] You can choose to draw or exo which is nice. Okay, you get the point. All the best sagas, all the sagas where you want to keep repeating the same ability and eventually how do you get there? How do you win? Uh there's a new saga that's a decent win condition. Well, this one I guess you play it because it's cool, but there's a new saga that's like huge. It's this one. Summon nice of the round. And this one you don't want to you don't want to remove. So sagas and uh can we turn sagas into creatures? Of course we can. All the enchantress stuff like mix probably a bad search.

[3:58:34] Starfield. Starfield of mix. Starfield. Yes. How else do you win with enchantments? And then you play Tetris. And we call it a day. A boring day, but it's a day. All right. Hopefully, this is again the boring uncommon of of Celestia, but I'll be honest, I'm not too confident when it comes to Celestnia. Probably one of the most boring color combinations, I'd say, when it comes to commander.

[3:59:20] Garnet Renoa. Why do these characters give similar vibes? Are they like just the same kind of role in different Final Fantasy games? Final Fantasy 9, Final Fantasy 8. When Renoa Hartilli, this is a healer, right? Hartily create a doggo. Oh no. Whenever Renoa attacks another target creature gets plus one plus plus one until the end of turn for each creature you control. We are playing again I guess power matters but you have to also go wide and play a bunch of creatures and then when you're playing a bunch of creatures going wide you can just crater hoof.

[4:00:07] What's the point of Oh, look. My hydra is eight power. Now I'm going to make eight make treasures. Yeah. So, I don't think you you can go wide, but when you go wide again, this payoff just doesn't do much. It makes one token what? Plus five plus five plus eight plus eight. So, what makes your dog huge? The dog doesn't even do commander damage. So, I think we just play a generic aggro deck. play lots of creatures and attack. And Renoa is not bad for for the power it gives, right? For how much it adds she adds to her combat phase. So, yep. Let's beat down with with Celestia.

[4:00:49] At least we're doing something different. So, Yep. M. Let's not restrict the cost. Let's just play the best creatures. Although we might have to scroll for a bit because we're starting with all these all these game changers which we are not going to play. Avenger. Why not? Sun Titan. Sure. Sure. Sure. Let's play these because they're actually really good. But we want some more aggressive token. No, no, no. Musa is Toki good. Toki is okay. Is okay because we want some early drops that are aggressive.

[4:01:29] Critter. Why not? Yeah, this is the kind of stuff. Champion of Lamphalt is actually excellent synergy. synergy. Forgotten ancient. Does that synergize with our commander? Nope, does not. Evolution Sage Vampire Ku. Why is this card so high? Your opponents can't cast spells. Whenever one or control with power greater than his base power, draw a It synergizes with our commander but not with the deck. It was nice to have uh yeah I don't think it's aggressive enough.

[4:02:11] Gas is fine. Is it where X is the total power of creatures you control? No, I don't think it's it will come down reliably. Yes, Adeline. This is the kind of card we want. And I guess we're in Simic if we're playing aggro. We do want a little bit of do we want a little bit of hate bears? I say no for now, but if you want, you can definitely do that. Faber is that is a big card. No, it's just a two. This card is good. Can get pretty big. But yeah, see Sim, not Simic. Celestnia, we don't even have premium aggro cards. We can't even beat that even though we are the creature color. Goraw is one of them.

[4:02:51] Goraw is sick. Except it's fine. It's a good card. Rishkar Boromir. Yes. Again, Ranger to search for Sarah ascendant. And aside from that, we are Can we play some cards that synergize with the commander that care about the power? Oh, yeah. Pathbreaker Apex, of course. Pathbreaker. I think there's more. We can find some just have again have some energy.

[4:03:32] Uh it will say equal to the equal to the power okay. Yes. Has to be creature. Oops. No. Lumara. No. Sovereign when attacks for each creature control power greater than. Queen Kling Skitter Spike. Does that work?

[4:04:12] It works. Okay. Indestructible. It's all right. It's all right. you can deal some decent damage and if even if you pump it by three it's you're dealing four damage to your opponent but I was thinking B what's Baldin do bald j your turn creature science no like where's my path breaker Iex and there's one more five mana card I'm looking for is Legendary cat trample creature dies have power greater than okay I'll just look for them path breaker and then there's another human that has was it covenant what's the what's the covenant covenant sorry covenant

[4:05:19] Yeah, it is doesn't have code. It's a human for five mana. Bear with me here. Last card I'm adding for this deck. Human for five mana. It says plus different power. Saggardian Zilla. At the beginning of combat phase, choose number choose number of creatures with different powers. Each of them gets plus X where access this power. Oh, it doesn't work with our commander, does it?

[4:06:00] Uh, another. Yep. No, doesn't work. Sad. All right, moving on. Sarah Ferron. Sarah Faron. This is like This girl is like probably probably sings. actually probably sings in the in the story in game. The first legendary creature spell you cast costs two less. Our own private heaven. Yeah, it's the karaoke. Yeah, she's inviting all the legendary creatures to the karaoke, right? Look at the back. Crystallized Sarah legendary artifact. Yeah, she turns into the karaoke. Yes. Let's see who fulfills their focus for their fay master are transformed into crystal and grant life eternal.

[4:06:48] That was close enough. Okay, so your legendaries are cheaper at the beginning of combat. On your turn, you control two or more legendaries. Transform, they get bigger. Okay, this is this is solid. Uh it's it's similar to Joda in that but Joda eventually turns into like a value deck because you just can't say no to the value to the cascading value. But this deck is straight up legendary beatdown which I think is fine. It's a fine theme first of all reoa reoa. Sorry, I keep forgetting. But yeah, Sarah, a team of legends led by Sarah who inspires them with song stuff.

[4:07:37] That's the theme. Now, let's take a look at what sweet legends we have to. Pew, pew, legendary creature. creature. We want creatures. Sorry. Isa, no tokens.

[4:08:18] Nope. Tosski. Yes, cuz it gets pumped. Lauren, maybe this. Yes, this is some synergy. Uh, GA. Yes, cuz we have a big board. Savella kind of. It's okay. Adeline, yes. Oh, absolutely. Double pump. Tahira. Gorlclaw. Absolutely. Orir, yes. Yes. Yes. The tiff. Noone. Sure. We're not. Yeah, we don't create tokens. Kodama. Wait. Modified. Modified. Do we modify? We don't modify. Nope.

[4:08:59] Six. It's okay. It's okay. We want some recursion. Aison. Why not? Aishnorn doesn't do that much. It's like a like a hate bear. Denitha doesn't do anything. Zandro, absolutely. Kama maybe not. Noring clax counters. We don't use counters. Coglas. Sure. Okay. Yeah. So, we have a legends beatd down deck. Sweet. Any synergy here? Maybe we'll look for some synergy. How we look for it is we search for legendary creatures. Yes. Cards that care about legendary BU does care about legendary creatures.

[4:09:49] right. I throw a coat. I actually didn't know this was only legendary creature. Doesn't change much, but it's relevant. Ganjo. Sure. Plaza of Heroes. Target legendary creature. Sure. We can tap our legends for mana to cast more legends. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Every legend will refund us mana on that turn because next turn you want to be attacking. Yes, of course. Flowering. I mean, Tyrite Sanctum, the Shire. Yeah. Yeah. Legendary, legendary, legendary.

[4:10:32] Okay, we have a deck. Select all. New category. Again, I don't want to go too much into detail again with decks that most people probably know how to build. Sarah, close enough. Yuna, this girl is important. I think she's from Oh crap. from Final Fantasy 10. Probably lives in the zoo. is are there?

[4:11:14] Oh, yeah. In in the tactics game there there were beast masters like people who control beasts. She must be one of those. But then she cares about enchantments. So is she like conjuring those stuff and then conjuring those stuff to fight for her. Yeah. Because otherwise she would be creating creature tokens, right? Yep. So your enchantments have trample lifelink war too. So they are beef. They are beefed. At the beginning of your end step, return up to one target enchantment card from your graveyard to your to the battlefield with final decount. We're not going to do enchantress if we can if we can help it.

[4:11:54] I mean, she works well with the saga creatures, but we'll see how many other good enchantment creatures there are. If there's enough, then we have just And there's not much else we can do with this really, is there? Yeah. Whoops. Does this work? We will see. We will see. Yes, it works. Nice. The best ones. Have to be careful with this one because a lot of the new ones are not going to be in EDH Wreck yet.

[4:12:35] at least not high in the rankings. So, we have to scroll down a bit, but we want to start off with beat down, right? We're trample life link. We want to do damage. We want to start with the big ones like this one. Not this one. Helad, sure. Yeah, we want big enchantments. Ranata, it's decently big. Is sheeki really any good? Is not that good. class is not enchanting creature. Don't try to trick me.

[4:13:15] is if we can turn it on. Nia, sure. Yeah. Hoping for lots of devotion because once we have devotion and these are word to indestructible, trample life. Maybe just play enough gods so they turn on each other. Archetype. Good card. Overlord is great. Callix. Yeah, this is a good card. Nthos Paragon, we are not gaining. Oh, we are gaining life, but we want to gain life before combat damage. Probably still good. Idolon is okay.

[4:13:56] Helion. Yeah, sure. Let's play the gods. So, we have some resiliency. Okay. Okay. And now that we have a bunch of enchantment creatures, we're going to need some enchantment synergy. I'm not sure we play enchantress here cuz they're these enchantments are big. We are curving out every turn. So, I'm not sure we want to draw. Do we want to draw a card a turn? Not really. What we want though is we want those mass reanimator effects. For replenish. Whoops. return all Oops. Any other restrictions here?

[4:14:37] Nope. Yeah. So, it's like we have a we are an aggro deck that has our own our own living death kind of our own mass resurrect which is decent. Uh open the vaults is a bit risky. Redress fate is not. We replenish. There you go. And triumphant reckoning. Let's just see if there are any cool saga creatures. I'm sure there Saga. Go back. Go back. Whoops. We cannot go back. Was an error.

[4:15:18] We should have looked first, but no problems. Enchant saga creature. Saga creature. go. EDH recre. Absolutely. Yojimbo. Absolutely. I don't even know what he does, but I mean, how do you know? How do you say no to these cards? Yeah, it's great. Exion, good card. Fenrare gets a land in Nice of the round.

[4:16:02] Perfect. Good. Mog makes tokens. Uh, non-creature spell. Great crit tok. Oh, we don't have other tokens, but sure. Sure. Okay. Yeah, I'm I was waiting for this card. Summon type. Cool card. Five mana. Seven. Seven. Okay, we have a deck. Select all. Go in. We This is Her name is Yuna. Remember how many cards do we have? We got 600 cards. How much is this pile? $4,000. Not too bad, honestly. Baltier. Baltier and friend. We are in gr territory.

[4:16:44] And a human and a human They're doing some cosplaying while there's a massive ship behind them. I'm guessing it's their ship. Otherwise, they'd be shooting at it. Yeah, but except they decided to not use the ship and fight with they fight with a shotgun and a an arrow. It's very gel of you. That makes me worried about the text. I hope it's good about Okay, it's about vehicles. That's a good start. Vehicles. You control get plus one. Have vigilance and breach. Whenever a vehicle ac crewed by Belfier and friend this turn attacks, if it's the first combat fix this turn, you pay.

[4:17:31] So all your vehicles can attack twice if they're crude. But but the problem with vehicle decks is that you have to have a creature crewing each vehicle, which is really annoying. We'll have to find a way to figure to bypass that, but once we can like once we do, it's going to be fun. Yeah, this deck, this commander looks sweet. So, start with the vehicles, the core of the deck, and then we see what kind of synergy we can find. Vehicle in go. And this deck is kind of aggressive, right? We want to be on the beat.

[4:18:14] Smuggler copter. Yeah, we're not going to waste a crew on smuggler copter. We have to Yeah, they have to be decent vehicles. Had futter. This is fine. Flagship. It's fine. Mana rock. Sure. Weather light reveal historic cart reveal vehicle. Sure. Chariot. His vehicles are decent but not aggressive. amazing. We'll have to see. Exile graveyard deals combat damage. Steal a creature. It's not bad. Reckoner buster 44.

[4:18:56] Remove a charge counter. Draw a card if there charge counter. It This is a vehicle that creates pilots. That's always a plus. Of course, we want some bomb vehicles like this one. Revert Titan. Two combats from this would just devastate the table. This one. Gunship. Yeah. Again, the vehicle vehicle that brings pilots in are lovely. Clown car. I'm not sure about this one. You pay six mana, you get a 33 and three No, this one slicer. It is not a vehicle.

[4:19:36] Yes. Unlicensed. Here's Too slow. Mech Titan's core. This is not bad. This turns all that into one huge vehicle. Yeah. Okay. We got some cool vehicles. I want to see some from the new set. So, we're going to rank sort by date. Yeah, the regalia. Beautiful. Regalia. Oh, Ether Drift. Oh, yeah. I forgot about Ether Drift. It's a vehicle set. What does this do? Thunderous Velociped.

[4:20:18] Yeah, definitely. It's a vehicle lord. This is also a man rock, so sure, why not? Live craft engine. Vehicles are a creature type. No, no, it's okay. Earth Crumbler turns itself on, but lumbering world wagon is sweet. I have to read these vehicles. Trample haste. This becomes a creature, which is good. Discard a card. Return it to the battle. That's pretty aggressive. Okay, we got some cool vehicles. And now we need synergy with our commander. What kind of synergy can we find?

[4:21:01] I can think of one card that is amazing in this deck which is called which is called crap. I can't remember. I have to search for it. It is a green card that says it's a green card that says untap all creatures crutches. untap all creatures banner factors drought. There you go. So, what you can do with this card is yeah, it does untap your opponent's creatures, but I think you're you're coming out ahead because say you have like three or four vehicles on the field.

[4:21:42] You crew one vehicle with your commander and then you crew them with each other. Then you cast this, all your vehicles are crewed and untapped and you attack for two combat phases. This is like alpha strike material. Yeah, this is sick. And at the same time, of course, uh we want start your engine. I'm going to look for all synergy. That's uh with vehicle vehicle. Why does this OIA says put a creature vehicle card? It's not bad.

[4:22:25] Ovia instant speed. Sure. Rex cycle this card. Put two counters on vehicle or creature. And I know it says vehicle, but I don't think this does enough. It's just a big dumb dinosaur that can protect your commander. I'd rather play protection spells. I'd rather play protection spells that untap if those exist. Defend the rider. Protection spell that makes a pilot. Close enough. But then we want to make a pilot proactively, not reactively. We'll probably still play it, but for now we want to focus on the vehicle synergies interpret.

[4:23:07] No, we searched for the wrong color. We should be searching for Yeah, red is where the sweet sweet blowouts are. No. Yes, this is correct. Go. What's that card again? Whenever this vehicle Why does it have to say whenever this vehicle attacks? Why can't it just say H? That ruins our search because all of them say whenever this vehicle. Oh well, we will we will plow through the stupid vehicles.

[4:23:51] What does Chandra do? Shoot crew a vehicle. Chandra creates a vehicle and crews a vehicle. I say that's good enough. Reckless crew. X number of vehicles you control for each token. You may. It's not that good. Start your engines is pretty good. Takeoff celebrations. No. Uh, Filigree Racer attacks. You may pay two target. No, there's one more. There's like an eight mana card from the new set from uh from jump start that.

[4:24:34] There you go. Push to the limit. Push the limit. This is nuts. Return everything. And they Yeah, they boom people. All right. Now we want some more synergy with our commander because we want untap. Why is that? Because imagine if crew a vehicle and then we untap all three and crew another vehicle. Now we get two triggers of this. So say mid game we have seven mana. Assuming the untap spell is one mana, we can get combats which is really good with the two vehicles we crew.

[4:25:17] Yeah. So, let's look for if we have any untapped spells. Green or red. Untap. And we I'm pretty sure we're to look for instance and sorceries. Could be artifacts. Probably not. Okay. Wh on top instant sorcery red or green. What is wrong with this? Oh, partial partial rank.

[4:26:00] Oh, what if we just Yeah, what if we just play extra combat cards So let's say we attack with vehicles. They have vigilance. So we don't care about them tapping. So what we're going to do is we attack with the vehicle and then we're going to crew all of our vehicles and then untap all creatures you control you. But just like additional combat phase stack with wealthier the additional combat phase if this is your combat. Yeah, they stack because usually the problem with these kind of spells stacking is the untapped part doesn't happen.

[4:26:43] But we vigilance. Okay, so we're playing extra combat spells. Yeah, they are sweet. They are now sees the day. Is that good? That's really good. Right. Hey, is it? Yeah, cuz we can untap Balthier and then untap it again. And now we get we we get three combat faces. Yeah. Yeah. Holy crap. It's nutty. Uh and also this one is just untaps legless. Great card. Protection on tap. Sees the spotlight. What does that do? Nope. Uh, overpowered mob rule, untap, savage beating.

[4:27:27] Everything gets double strike untapped. Does this work with vehicles? Not really, cuz we we we can crew after this happens. We can crew the board and then they won't get double strike. Full throttle, on the other hand, is sick. Yep. Uh, seems like we don't have many other untapped cars. Good untapped cards. Emerald Charm just on top. Is that worth Maybe. Do we not have other last night together? Untap them. Choose two target creatures. Untap them. Put two plus one.

[4:28:07] They get vigilance and draw of haste. Only the chosen creatures can attack. No, it's not good enough. Okay, I think this is a solid skeleton. Yeah, a very cool card. Very cool deck. Dropping one vehicle a turn might be a bit slow. So, we might need to need ways to play them to cheat them out. And how do we cheat vehicles out? I'm not sure. I guess just ramp. We need some ramp.

[4:28:49] Yeah, I I can't. Aside from OIA, we're not going to be able to dump a bunch of vehicles. Can we cheat out maybe in red? And there are some options. The last thing we need to do though is place some creature lands. Like these lands will help you crew vehicles in a pinch, right? Middle of vault. You don't want them to be expensive to to turn on. But let's see how many vehicles we have. Crew one or lower. Uh crew two. Okay. The crew is a bit expensive.

[4:29:30] Crew two usually. Crew four here. Crew four. So maybe Yeah. I can't think of many lines that will work here. Oh, there's one. There's the village. Forgot what it's called, but turns into a monkey. Treetop village. Yeah, this is fine. And also cards likeen that can create some tokens in a pinch.

[4:30:12] Yeah, it's fine. All right, we have a deck. Select all. Not all these. Don't. Please don't. There you Why? Okay, we're going to refresh the page. Don't want to mess up the the deck here. Okay. Select all. New category. Beltier. Okay. Whoops. We Oh, did we leave the legends page? We did. Okay. Let's search again.

[4:30:54] Final Legendary. Final Fantasy. Where are we? F. Nope. Set. Final Fantasy. Okay, now we're sorting by color. Color Yes, we are. Oh, we're going descending. Descending. Descending. Descending. Please. Okay. Legendary So, at this point, I'm not even sorry anymore.

[4:31:41] You chose to be here. And this is H. Yeah, I'm not thinking straight. And so far, I'm having a great time. I think it's really fun to to build decks like this. Okay. Down, down, down, down, down, down. Both here. Look at Holy crap. Look how many we got we gone through. How many do we have left? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16. Not too bad. We can do it. Uh, Gladiololis. This guy. Guard the king with our lives. That's the way it's always been. It's just the tough guy. The giant. What's with the people with giant swords here?

[4:32:23] It's like It's like a sword contest, right? It's like mine's bigger or mine is bigger than yours. Well, mine is even bigger. And when Gladius, Gladiololis, his his looks like the biggest, honestly. This guy again probably has conversations with his sword more than with people. Search your library for a land card. Put onto the battlefield. Okay, it searches for any land. Whenever land you control enters, another target you control gets plus two and trample. It's not great, but at least it searches for non-basics.

[4:33:06] So, we have a landfall deck that and Guru is aggressive. So, we're playing aggressive. And this guy can, you know, come in and get two landfall triggers. And if we save some fetchlands, he can pump. Okay. Grow aggro. We haven't done that yet creature. Yeah, beatd down is always fun. Creature growl. And we want for growl, we want like the power to be at least four. I'd say greater than three least to do the beat down. Yeah.

[4:33:46] Y or Y power power greater than three or USD. We don't care about the money. Plus two trample. That's it. Fine. Wait. Land enters tapped. Okay. Fine. Yes. Extra combat. Why not? Why not? Yes. Landfall Uh, this is good because it can benefit from the trample, right? On top each creature.

[4:34:27] Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Blood thirster, not so much. Recruiter, not so much. And Zorak is blocked. Sure. Trample is helpful. Hideous taskmaster is ridiculous. It's really good. Ike, we don't have modified creatures. Firebol No multiportio. Still good. Yeah, we are playing landfall beatd down. And in this deck, it makes sense to play some ramp, right? To play some good ramp cards. We want at least lands.

[4:35:10] Search your library for two for two lens. Search for lens should be able to get us what we want. Yeah. Cars like this. Why? We don't want Why? Oh, because of stats, of course. We want cars like hero. Like, they're good early, but late game also.

[4:35:51] We can use them to to do stuff to pump. Escape shift. Yeah, totally. This land and creature good. Hydra. Good. But I was thinking more. Oh, this is like ah might as well go big. Where's my hero? This is a creature and a land and gets a land. I think it's Um, what does road and home road ruin do? Ruin deals damage to target.

[4:36:31] No wave vitrial. Good. Clearing the board of all vitrio. Fine. I'll do it Suck. Oh, and this is the deck we are playing again. All fetches for maximum. But again, if playing all fetches, are we really doing it with this commander if you like it? Who knows? So, some fetches go in there.

[4:37:16] Oops. Go in there. Sak tribe. Not really. Herrow propotation because I'm assuming our deck will have some relevant non-basics. Good non-basics. And restoration. That's the other one. Cozen verse doesn't work. Does it? Nope. Plan of woodland is a bit expensive. Spring Bloom Druid, sure. Rolling regrowth, sure. Okay, let's search for some non-basic lands. What kind of non-basic lens would be good with this Uh, lands that reward big creatures.

[4:37:58] Kic Warfront, but we already have evasion. We'll just do a quick quick search. land. And it needs to have Can't think of much. No. What? Land. Yeah, I can't think of too much. I mean, card draw is good. Always too much relevant. Okay, hideway is good.

[4:38:39] Yes. Oh, that was this monster bridge. Don't want to go too fast. Our commander is expensive. So, I guess if we have some cards that are working that are built around the commander, we want command beacon. You can search for it with our commander. That's solid. Game trial. Wolf run is decent. Wolf run. Field of the dead. Sure, we're getting lots of lands. And yeah, we can also place some landfall cards, but I won't bother putting them here because seems fairly obvious. I guess we'll pick one that is the best landfall card. Which one is the best landfall card? It is skew mob, right?

[4:39:20] Sorry. Nope. Scoot Beautiful. We have a deck. Select all. This guy's called, what's his Gladadio. Gladus. Radia, summoner of mist. This seems like an important And yeah, that's a cool I like this design.

[4:40:04] It's like a bit similar to what's her name? What's her name? Yuna, maybe. What does she do? Landfall. She cares about lands. You may discard a card, draw a card. That's a good landfall ability. Return target saga card with meta value X or less from graveyard to the battlefield with a finality hunter on it against haste. Yeah, seems like she's just working with the lelay lines, channeling the power of the lands and creating these conjuring these things, these summons that are sagas, I guess. What are they called?

[4:40:45] I forgot what they're called. Infrits or something. something like that. She probably Yeah, she probably has a lot of spells and a god that she's angry at, wants revenge. And with this deck, yeah, we can again, we can do landfall. And because she dumps the she dumps the sagas into the graveyard by herself, right? Kind of kind of we don't really need to do much. So then we can just get a saga every turn. Get a saga every turn. I think that's a solid play And yeah, we just need to ramp to filter hand. Every saga can be dumped into the and we play other cards that synergize with sagas.

[4:41:31] Okay, let's take a look at Saga. Saga. Go. You can pay zero to return or saga. Maybe not. Um, considering the graveyard synergies, the mending is always good. But they're in back again. Turn block is there back attempts to use a search library for a mountain from the battlefield. Hey, it triggers landfall.

[4:42:11] Yeah, I guess we just play the cool sagas. I I don't imagine green soul saga to have too much synergy among themselves. So, does it really are we are we dropping this hard in quality already? Let's take a quick look. We are not. We are not. It's just EDH being weird or did we not sort by track? We did. Okay. Play additional land. I'll pass. Create a treasure. I'll pass. No. No. We want this because we're doing one a turn. We want them to be kind of impactful. And also, we are definitely ramping a bit. So, I'm guessing we're starting off with like five mana sagas Yeah.

[4:42:55] But she returns them with finality count. Okay. Yeah. Let's ignore the small ones first. This one is decent though. deals two damage to each opponent and creature. Creates a dragon. It's like a big discard. Yeah. So, this is fine. The flux. Nope. The parting of ways exit five cards each number of time counters. It's not bad. We can get free sagas. This is good. Wait, it says non saga. Almost almost got tricked. Um, of course bahmut power stone tokens.

[4:43:39] Nope. Trolls destroy land without your land card from Gator. I wouldn't spend a turn doing this. So, no. This ramps I can just cast it from my hand. I doubt I'm going to bring it but something. It's something. Sisters. The Magus sisters. Three counters on creature. put a shield counter turn. This is not the kind of Saga. Even though she gives Saga's haste, but again, like I said, we're doing one a turn. We are probably not going to do be doing much beat down. So, I'll pass on this for now. Also, it already has haste, so negative synergy.

[4:44:21] Instant sorcery spells exile. This cares about our from each graveyard. So, not just us. So, this is good. Summon Titan. This one is good because it returns all lands. It works with the graveyard. Yeah. Okay. So, we have a bunch of sagas. Now, what? Now, what? We have a saga every And we are tapping out for it kind of. We're tapping mana for it. So the rest of our hand has to be well or we need a decent amount of ramp.

[4:45:04] So search land. Once again, why am I doing this? Is for people who might look who might have to look at the list. Search land. Just to add a few just so they So the play pattern is play your commander and then we ramp a bit. So turn three ramp, turn four ramp is all right. Oh, do we want to play all the again? I guess doesn't hurt. I mean, if you have them, play them. Personally, I actually really don't like all color fetches, but nowadays there's more and more upside between the shuffling, between the landfalls and all that.

[4:45:53] Uh, it's unfortunate. I hope they patch the rules day. See? Okay, let's see. Hero. Yes. Now, what is the rest of the deck going to do? Saga enchantment interactions. We're not going to play Enchantresses. We are going to So, we don't have too much mana to use because we are returning Saga every turn. So, I'm guessing we can do some synergy. Madness. No, return all from graveyard. Return from graveyard.

[4:46:33] See if we have any of We don't really want Yeah, like this kind of stuff is good. Splendid reformationation pinnacle summon is Titania aftermath analyst. This is fine. This is good. Lots of lands. Do we do landfall for the rest of the deck? I don't really want to do again.

[4:47:15] You can, Motani Dr. is fine. Bumar is good. So, I guess we are doing big mana. I guess we're doing big mana. We are capable of. So, aside from dropping saga. Okay, let's see if there's any other enchantment. Enchantment enchantment.

[4:47:55] It's all destroying enchantments. Yeah. Sanctum viewer. Sure. That's enchantment energy. Draw. Do we need draw? Honestly, I think we're fine for drawing because we're discarding all these sagas and we're and also we're just kind of discarding some lands. So, we're drawing the other cards. Now, we're we're trying to figure out what the other cards are. That's the question. Doesn't seem like we have a ton of enchantments Oh, we can play what's his name? Bellow. We can Bellow. We will add him soon. More counters on a permanent player too slow.

[4:48:38] Yeah, bellow. This works with our deck. Okay, so I think we have what we need for now. We're going to drop this into her name is Ryia. with the uh Terra. This one I've seen and I Well, let's read it. Terra enters mail five cards. Put up to one enchantment card mail this way into your hand. So, she's like resource gathering. Kind of looks like from the art kind of scouting the grounds.

[4:49:19] See what's what's growing over here. trans exalt return it. transform so expensive. I I honestly I don't like these designs where you have to pay mana to transform and activate that sorcery. It's impossible for you to depend on the backside too much because it's so expensive and your opponent will just be holding that removal waiting and the front side is just not enough to build around. So, we'll see. Now, this copies target enchantment gains haste if it's a saga but three lore counters on two Yeah, this seems like just another saga deck.

[4:49:59] Saga deck except non-leendary sagas five color. Anything else we can do with this? Not really. Is this better than Bombadoo? Okay, if this is like the best saga deck there is, it's fine. We'll build it. But we're not gonna we're not put in just a few saga, but we'll figure out some synergy if possible. Saga, no color restriction because this is five color. This is not cool. And play the best ones. Do we play flip sagas? We can, but again there so expensive.

[4:50:45] So expensive to play. Whoops. And of course, we want to play the expensive sagas because they're getting right? Yeah, they're getting copied. So, let's just narrow it down to CMC greater four. Yay! The coming war. This is why we're here. Why? What? Oh, power. CMC. I don't want power greater than four. Battle of the Hellvault.

[4:51:28] Sure. Tom Bombadil. Sure. Horus Heresy. Sure. Protects our commander. Not really. Kind of. It's fine. Evolution. Gain control of target non mut. Nope. Yeah, play a bunch of sagas and play a bunch of enchantment synergy now that we in now that we are in five color. So much we can Replenish. Starfield of mix and then see if we have some other enchantment crap like for each enchantment for each enchantment.

[4:52:30] I think I put saga power. I don't want power. Freeze enchantment. Sphere of safety. Why not? payoff. Not too much over here. Boon of the spirit realm. Whenever Boon spirit damage under your control creatures you control get what? That is not good.

[4:53:11] Um yeah and after that with all these sagas enchantments last reanimation are there protections enchantment you control health shroud yes search for enchantments I think that might get us something aside from destroy all enchantments. Oxy command is still nice cuz we can do artifacts creatures some creatures. Uh this ramps us we won't have too many enchantments but still still good because we need lots of mana for for transforming our What is this?

[4:54:04] Destiny Spinner can't be countered. That's okay. Sterling Grove. That's enchantment payoff. Yeah, we have a deck. Nothing too special, too interesting here. Not a big fan of this design. I honestly think Tom Bomb might be better, but didn't look too much into it. Terra done. Black Walt number three. You fool. Do I look like some moldy black mage soldier? So, it's like Yeah, it's like the character that's disguised as a black mage for all his life just waiting for you, the main character to come and all the black mage around him didn't know, right?

[4:54:48] And just transforms. Always found this funny. They're just waiting for for this one moment. I don't know how they decide when to do it, but seems like they did. And this is like whenever it comes to non creature spell, black walts number three deals two damage to each opponent. Now, this is just ridiculous, right? It's the is it the best black red small deck? There is another one that's similar, but I'm not sure. I mean, I know it's to walk. Yeah. I see to is target opponent to any target actually. But this guy is each opponent.

[4:55:28] So just a gutter snipe in the commando and you just worry about chaining spells, removing things and then your commander will get the job done. Yeah, it seems like one of the uh what's it called? Best commander, best spelling slinging commanders for Ratosse. So we're going we're going to try that. We're going to try that. But we know we have a lot of small spells. We know our commander can deal damage. What are the synergy? What's the synergy we're looking for? Small spells, non spell each opponent. Well, first card first, which is clinic.

[4:56:09] And um we want small spells. We'll start with instance and sorceries because other non-creature spells don't really have the same oops instance and sorceries power. Nope. Meta value less than four. Even four is kind of high. Although we do want we want to play some cost. What? Okay. Sorcery. Sorcery.

[4:56:57] Okay, I think we just play a bunch of them. Play all the good ones. Not feed this form. I hate feed this form. I don't think it's actually good. Sure. Two spells in one comparator. Sure. This is Yeah, this is a powerful deck. I think it's going to be a powerful deck. Well, of course, deflecting swat protection man. Sure. Deadly dispute. We don't no sign and blood draw two cards. Maybe Maybe terminate rebirth. Sure.

[4:57:37] maybe. Read the bones. Yes. Ratos charm is a good card. So, lots of small spells just to control the game, annoy your opponents, cut awakening, table trickery, of course. And now the question comes to how do we refill our hand. So, let's see. Whenever you cast a ratose, cutter snipe.

[4:58:21] Yes. Purgy. Perie is great because the black sight allows us to refill our hand and we can kind of storm off a little bit. Um, young pyromancer probably not. Fire incription. Good card. I'm not sure about the one damage ones. Our commander already does two damage. So runaway steamkin whenever you cast a spell at red red your third spell every third spell gives you three mana. Probably not. Crucation mage is fine. wizard glaring flesh. Refilling our hand is going to be bothers some closet.

[4:59:08] Yeah, this is a great card with small spells. SGore witch cast copy as a sorcery spell create one black green pass against life. I do like the life gain and we do need to kind of block, right? We need to control the board. All right, we have all these spell slinging payoffs. Not really kind some maybe some cost reduction. Spells cost less. There you go.

[4:59:53] Black spells and red spell cost less. I think it's fine. I mean worst case it reduces it for our commander so it serves like a as a metarok right so let's play them a cloud key have to choose between instance and sorceries don't like that blue and red no hazardous monument dominance helm of awakening no I think that's all we have for cost reduction okay artist talent is good yo this is crazy Good. Yeah, you're you're exposed to loot. They cost less and you can finish with this.

[5:00:35] It's pretty good. I'm glad I kept scrolling. Now I will scroll more. I think we are Yeah. Next up, we are looking for just card draw. We need ways to draw cards. Simple as that. Oh, I remember the card before I forget. It's called something amulet. Amulet of something something. There you go. Primal amulet. It reduces the cost of your spells and it flips into a land that can copy spells. It's always good.

[5:01:17] Uh, we have this. Uh, black market connections doesn't really do that much. Sure. Throw possibility. Yeah, we're going to need black for to draw us cards. But how does black draw cards though? I think black draws cards by do we? Probably not. demand answer. I think black draws cards mainly by recasting things from graveyard. So we are going to cast from graveyard black and red.

[5:02:03] Yes. Yes. That's how we do it. Cast from graveyard. Cast from graveyard. Revise. What does it do? Add to no dragons increase in vengeance. No pain distributor. Finale of promise. We may cast to one target turn from graveyard. One each. That's decent. But we're not going to pay 10 for X. Don't think we get to do that. Caravic crime exile onto one block from reaver. Copy it. You may cast a copy if you do lose two life.

[5:02:45] We're not We have some target. We have some commit crime stuff. Not a ton of prior to there you go. That's one way to do it only black. Oh, any instant. Okay, that's good. and also something like right? Okay. Yeah, this deck should be powerful.

[5:03:25] Fairly powerful, I'd say. Nice. Black mage. New category, black wolves. Next up, Garland. He's got Oh, man. This guy's got main character pose, but side quest energy. Side quest villain energy. Like, what? All right, Garland, we'll knock you. Yeah, there you go. We'll knock you out down. This is like I'm again AI wasn't a thing back then but if it was I honestly would feel like this dialogue a lot of these quotes feel so AI and whenever you cast a non creature spell surveil one that's it return this card from your graveyard to the battlefield transform I really hope the backside is good because I don't want to build around this servial one the backside I I mean it's

[5:04:29] Sav mana has to be decent, right? I mean, look at him. He's Jeez. Chaos the endless. I think I underestimated him. It's a It's a badass demon. Flying fight. Oh, when Chaos dies, put it on the bottom of its library. We are building around servo, guys. We're building around servo. Also, favorite text. Even as you die again and again, I shall return. How does that make sense? This is not AI. You die again and again, but I shall return. What? Like return from what?

[5:05:10] Celebrating. Yep. We're building around Surville. Oh god. Every time cast spell one. What non-creature spells can we cast? Just normal the normal stuff. You know what we are doing? Reanimator. That's what we're doing because every loot card, everything card, every other card, we are we get to dump one more card. And even the Metarox allows us to dump cards into so we can fairly quickly get some fatties out. It's actually not the worst. Okay, first to motivate us, we're going to play the find the biggest fatties we can reanimate.

[5:05:51] Boom. creature. Oh, sorry. What am I doing? What did I mess up this time? Greater than. So, greater than six. What was I doing? good battle sphere. Nope. Cosite can't reanimate. Well is good but nope still can't reenate.

[5:06:35] Not surprisingly not impactful enough honestly. Sure he ex all their half their library and then half and then half. We'll see. We'll see. Archon's If that betray on the other hand is very impactful kind of snowballs but not it snowballs could win the game on its own. Twitter for his card demon. I wouldn't reanimate this probably. Wood winwards. Okay. Kind of locks our opponent down. Ancient bronze dragon. Sure, because it brings more creatures back. Razic is fine. We And that's a decent decent team for cards to reanimate.

[5:07:22] I'd Emercle, Lord of the Void. Okay, it's not getting better. We have 1, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. We do need more. So, let's take a look again to go up. Lower our standards a little bit. Ah, but is that it? Oh, we can we can lower the scene. We can we can accept six CMC lower than six. No, I can just cast I can just play man and cast it if it's lower than six cuz six I remember there is a card sure.

[5:08:12] Yeah. No more sorings for you. Scourge of the throne is not good Okay, cool. Now, I think that's it. We've got 12. I want a few more. I want a few more. So, again, greater six, I guess. Ulamag is fine. Now looking at it, instructible. I was surprised there's I I guess we're in Ratos, right?

[5:08:54] Not really. Not Not like we're in a good color. Uh Rudamog, this can lock down their board. No more creatures for you. I'm sure t something. Again, we don't want to reanimate this, but it's better than not having something to reanimate because if we have lower than say 15 to 20 targets, we might just not get a target. Prozac fine. Also a tutor. Okay. 17 targets. Actually, no. 16 targets. Raz and we're cool. I like three. It's doable.

[5:09:35] Okay. I think this is good. Now we we play a bunch of uh yeah, loot cards and discard Um anything that discards. draw this card, I Sorry. Draw this card. Boom. Boom. Big score is quite expensive.

[5:10:16] I think we own this deck. Sure. Kath reunion. Cipher mind doesn't reenate. Tormented voice. Are we just playing all of them? Dark Deal. Sure. Jaxis discard a card token copy of creature you control. It's that's a fine Um yeah, we don't have to play too many discard. Okay, pirates. No, that's it. Strictly worse. Then better reunion is good cuz haste.

[5:10:58] Ah, speaking of haste, we want anger. We will add that later. Dragon mage. Okay, next up. Anger. Next up. Next up. What? Backup plants. If our fatties don't they get answered. Living the death. Living death. Of course. Patriarch spitting. Don't choose a creature type.

[5:11:39] What's the one that returns all creatures from your from return all creatures? Zombie Apocalypse Awakening. Is this any good? Funeral room. Whenever a creature girl dies. Nope, it's not good. Bring her of the last gift is Did I misremember? Is there not a card that does this? Oh, Bathor is good. Seven mana bring everything back. And I just remembered something. I forgot to play reanimation Smart.

[5:12:24] Uh, return. Wait, I I'll just search. I don't know how to animate dead because they're all worded different. It's like reanimate. and uh victimize. Yeah, we can sack our commander. We suck our commander and then it turns into the stupid chaos thing. Yeah, seems good. All righty, let's go Garland. Next up, Kua Gnome Sorcerer. Now, this is some side quest bots energy.

[5:13:07] Two black mages. At the beginning of your end step, create a tapped. Oh, one of those tokens. When you cast my spell, deal one damage to each opponent. Then, if you control four or more wizards, transform coo. Is this the best spell slinging commander in Ratos? Crap. Is it? If a wizard you control would deal damage to a permanent, it deals double that damage. This might be better than black walts, but it's a little bit different. Create a whenever you cast an spell.

[5:13:48] Creates a token, transforms damage. I think you do the same. I think you just play spell sling. They go in each other's decks. Except we want to do we want to transform it or do we want to just keep tokens? Um beginning step create a token. Okay, we'll see. We'll see because let's see if there are any wizards that we can use to transform him early if that's what we want.

[5:14:35] Okay. Dual caster mage. I think these are fine. Wizards double seems good. Yeah, we got some energy. Maybe board. Maybe board. then, oh, this guy's a wizard. Beautiful. Anything else? Yeah, I don't think we actually want to force the transform just because we want to create some wizard tokens first. But this one, this token creation is actually quite slow and it's not ETB or anything.

[5:15:18] So, we have to wait a turn. Yeah, this is a bit slow. So, uh, we are going to Oh, one car vault. That's going to help us transform. And what else? What's another card? We want cards that create this wizard token similar to Kua. So, we will copy this text.

[5:16:04] Yeah, all these cards. These also go into uh black walts, but uh target opponent sack. Sure, why not? Lindlum. Nutty. This is a wizard that enters, creates a wizard. I mean, it's two wizards, so we're transforming. Queen. It happens when she attacks, so probably too slow. Transpose. Draw a card. Discover a card. Use life. Oh, wow. Okay. So, we we make some wizards. And once we do that, I'm pretty sure this the rest of the deck is very similar to black bolts. Um, do we care about So, the backside.

[5:16:46] Okay, we'll put in some spells. play some spells, but instant. Can we play another card type like battles? No. Planes walkers, sagas, artifacts. This an artifact commander. It is not. No. No, I don't think so. Got to do spells, man.

[5:17:27] Okay, forgot to limit the whatever. You get the point. Spell slinging. Vote emperic reanimate. F is looting just as well. Now also another thing is the commander once transformed is a 4 six that doubles all damage. So this works well with cars like it doesn't work with what's it called which is clinic but it works well with cars like again Chandras ignition and also if we pump this by merely seven damage it can kill people late game.

[5:18:19] So that's another alternate win condition. How do we pump by seven damage? Well, something like black blade. Black blade reforged. Transcri fate defied. Anything else we can do? I don't think so. I don't think so. Okay. Again, with these decks, I feel like they're more open-ended than I'm giving them credit for. So, if you find something unique and powerful that works, please comment. Let me know.

[5:18:59] I'd be really curious. Her name is Kua. His name is Kua. I'm just guessing, honestly. Apologies for any mixups. EMTT Selch Unared. It's the same post as Emit. same post as Cooa like, "Oh, welcome to my city." He doesn't even own the city, but welcome to my city. And you know what? He might own the city. This is pretty sick. I mean, yeah, this is pretty sweet. What will become of our triumphs, our hopes, our our despair?

[5:19:42] So deep. Emit vigilance. Whenever enters our attacks, draw a card and discard a card. Another looter. The beginner jobkeep. If you there are 14 or more cards in your graveyard, transform during your turn. You can play the 14 cards from that you mil if a card would put into your favor any more exo. So you can't loot the same card again and again and you can't really control the game because you only during your turn. So you have to play proactive and playing proactively from your graveyard. What does that look Aggil beatd down.

[5:20:28] But I mean when they wipe the board, your commander's gone too. So it's not like also 14 cards to transform. Are we doing reanimator Really? I guess we are cuz in reality you are proactive and also being be able to play cards from the graveyard you can reanimate two three things a turn right because you're milling yourself you have all those cards in the graveyard rather than just having that one reanimate in hand so I think this is actually a better reanimate commander we'll see we'll okay but first again we are going to look at all the fatties We won't look too closely anymore just because we we just did that.

[5:21:18] So meta value less than greater than six greater than five and demir and go. You're in. You're in. Yay. Blue does have some solid creatures. I'd have to say like as a whole is just ridiculous. Uh artisan h maybe not. Klac villas really is still good. Rul maybe maybe not. Archon still decent.

[5:21:59] That betray still good. Ancient silver dragon drop 20. Sure. Cause sure. Jin Gataxis that's good. Doubles our void win. Good. Another Jenga taxes. Hey. Yeah, blue does have better targets roster. Okay. I think we're good. I think we're good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Go fast. 16 target 15 targets already. Toxil. Toxic throw is a good one. Ancestral dragon. Why not? That's decent. Doesn't win the rest of the but yeah, seems good. Now we want lots of self mail self-mail like male each player because 14 cards is not easy.

[5:23:00] How many loot spells can we Oh, we have the mana cost restriction still. Also, restriction. So, let's take that away. And take No, we don't have the creature restriction. Altern is good. Is good. Breach is too expensive. Brain freeze. No. Mine crank. Nope. Childrip scour. Sure. Play one too expensive. Drown in the dreams. How do we mow ourselves? Each opponent was each opponent. Why? Sacrifice an artifact. No. Traumatize yourself.

[5:23:41] It's a bit too aggressive. But I mean, as soon as you get the traumatized down and flip your commander, you are going off. So maybe maybe play it. Garuda. Garuda. You play with top four pairs. This is decent. It's like Mill and Rean all in one. It's not terrible to bring back from the gra. So, what does this do? Ancient one. No, it doesn't do much. Glimpse the unthinkable might be honestly decent here.

[5:24:27] I guess we because we want to do it fast. Dreamorn muse is a bit slow. It's a bit slow, but I guess we are a slower reanimator deck. We're when when our commander flips, we are reanimating like two three things in one turn rather than rather than just one. So, I guess it's fine. But the condition is that we need to find enough cheap reanimation spells. Do we have that return creature from Okay.

[5:25:09] Dread return. Good get enough three creatures. Yeah, but we to on earth three and a value three or No persist. Um stitch together. Yeah. Threshold. We else?

[5:25:49] What does this do in front for funeral room? Sure, the other side everything if we get to eight mana. And the funeral room is not terrible. It's okay. Incarnation technique returns two things. Overlord helps us fill the graveyard with the impending Yeah, this is kind of the skeleton. Also, the enchantments, dance of the necromancy.

[5:26:33] Uh, what's the other one? Reanimate. I think this is fine. We do need more self mill. There was a card I remember like a black silver library but I forgot the name that it brings like a it helps you fill the graveyard. It's an enchantment. I will try to find it. Pay one. Pay one. Type line block. This should be able to get us No, too many. Really? Wait, no. This one. Repulse of undeaf.

[5:27:15] Yeah. Pay one or three and three life. Put a card get a card back, but everything else goes to the graveyard. Yeah. So, we are probably flipping our commander on turn turn four, turn five, the earliest. So, we're not going to cast it until we are ready to flip. And we are going to have some protection spells. Yes. So, some cheap counter Instant. Doesn't have to be counter spell. Could be counter spells. But let's say for example, I'm not going to use the search.

[5:27:57] I'm going to do say what's it called? Target player creature face. Oh, slip. Slip. something slip out the back and then like the blink spells I forgot the name but I do remember an offer you can't refuse and also cards like um what's that land Uh, MDFC is what we're looking for.

[5:28:45] MDFC. There you go. Malaka Rebirth. These are also fine as protection spells. Yeah, we have another reanimator deck. This seems decent on paper. Damn it. A little bit too dependent on the, you know, the setup and on your commander. But even if commander gets killed, we can still play kind of reanimation normally. I guess we want a backup plan or something like that for our fatties, for example, like uh quicksilver amulet. But yeah. All right. Gold bets crystal collector. Whenever an artifact you control enters at the beginning of yours, let's see how many we have left.

[5:29:27] Not many. the beginning of your end step. You control four or more artifacts. Return target creatures cards from your graveyard to your hand. Then you if you control eight or more artifacts, each opponent loses life equal to that card's power. Can this can be another reanimator? It can, but let's see. So getting eight artifacts is not super realistic, but getting four is kind of. What kind of artifact tokens are we using to get those four artifacts?

[5:30:10] Can we play an artifact aggro deck and our commander will just give us But black blue doesn't support that. So well stuff if you control four more artifacts. Yeah. The question is what kind of artifacts we're going to use. Matter rocks. Yes. And then when they surveil things into the graveyard. Now what? You just get to return something to your hand every turn. And equal to power. So that makes big artifacts. So, I'm not sure we'll be able to build around this, but I I I think maybe we're playing.

[5:30:52] We'll see. We'll check out the the option of aggro because aggro works best with all all three of these abilities, right? Because we can get some value. We don't have to The problem with aggro is running out of cards, right? So, we can get some value, get some stuff back, and at the same time, if we get there, we can boom So, let's see what we have. creature commander bum no restrictions. We will start we will Yeah, we will start low to the ground. This is not Oh, I guess they are artifact creature.

[5:31:46] Why? Oh, it has to be artifact creature. Yeah. What was wrong with the search? Oh, MDFC. That's the problem. apologies. Here you go. Let's find the most aggressive ones. If we can find like 15 to 20 good attacking creatures, then we Yeah, we can do it. Cost one less. Yes. Metamorph. Yes. Baleful strikes. Yes. And ideally we we prioritize token making Ethereum sculpture.

[5:32:28] Psychosis probably is not bad. It's fairly aggressive. Walking blister. Not really. Golem. Nope. We have battle sphere. It's like a nice top end. Steel hell kite. It's not great, but it's okay. Again, beggars can be chooser. Scraper. We Yeah, we work with graveyard. Worm coil engine. Good. Crashing draw bridge. No. Thought monitor. Yes. Maybe. Maybe. We'll see. Steel overseer. Yes. Makes our guys bigger. Giving giving flash to our artifacts. It's okay.

[5:33:08] Yeah, flash is good. Kappa Canonir. This is kind of aggressive. Cyberdrive Awakener. Noncreature artifacts. We might have some uh hanger back walker that'll work. Colossus non creature artifacts. Nope. Uh autumn soldier copies as an artifact. Yeah, it becomes can imagine getting three worm coils. Master of ethereum. Good. Triplicate titan is too expensive I think.

[5:33:49] But you can just dump it into the graveyard and use the commander's ability to get it Triniform Encore 12. That's too much and is not doesn't do as much as the Titan. Ka is good. K is good. Yeah. Uh, this deck is not as aggressive as we'd like to be, but let's see if we can get some tokens. Master transmitter. No. Soul is good. Discount. Unear.

[5:34:29] Nice. Seir Ginger. Artifact you control was put into graveyard from the battlefield. Put a postcard on Sir Ginger. Put into graveyard from the battlefield. Not really. Artifacts get pumped. Artifacts have text proof. Artifacts make tokens. Yes. Okay. We will do this for now. And after this, we're going to look for some payoffs. I suspect it's just Öza. We will see.

[5:35:15] spy network artifact creature. What does tech do? It makes artifact creatures bigger. Oh. Oh, I missed it. It's not. It's uncus. Sorry. That's good. Chief, sure. Obelisk. No. Yay. There. Yes. This is the payoff card. Bior transference. Creatures control artifacts. They already are. Whenever you cast an artifact spell, you may lose two life. Necron warrior create a token.

[5:35:58] Uh uh. It's not amazing. You just got a token. That's all. Oh yeah, we can play some vehicles. Can play some but like this one is fairly decent. I think the cyber. Yeah, you create. Yeah, six mana 88. Totally. What was this? Grand Architect. What is this score pre? Yeah, artifact pump. The cyber controller enters each one of those X cards.

[5:36:41] No. Oh, artifacts get plus one. That's worth it. It's a mana sync. I was hoping for more cards like of course we'll play Tesarettes because that's like the payoff. Tesarette, right? this one for the ultimate. But the rest of this is also Tesarette create a file for draw a card. No, I'll draw two cards. No, this Tesarette first activated ability. Draw two cards. Discard two artifact. Gross. No, this one.

[5:37:21] The bridge. Yes. Master of bridge. Tesarus betrayal. Disarch. No. Okay. Okay. I think we have a deck. Oh, and we've lost some I think we got enough big stuff for our commander return. Yeah, I don't think our commander ability is really worth for for you to oh, early game boom get try your best to get eight counters, eight tokens artifact into play because the payoff just isn't worth it. So, we want to play artifacts kind of organically. We play the ones that we want anyways.

[5:38:02] All right, next up, lock and coal. Very stealthy gold beds. Lock and cold. Death touch, lifelink. Whenever lock and cold deals combat damage to a player, draw a card and discard a card. We got vampire knighthawk over here. This is terrible. It's so bad. This might be the worst. One of the worst ones here doesn't do anything. It has to connect and then you loot. So, you can't even loot reliably unlike the other ones here. Death touch, lifelink, life.

[5:38:43] Can we work with the death touch? cannot. It's like the guy who thinks he's doing a lot, being stealthy, being sleek, but actually he's no one notices him. Just in the background doing some espionage work. this. Oh, I am stumped by this guy. rogue rogue tribal. Okay, when you're stumped again, we see which 99 this guy goes into. I don't think this guy goes into any 99. Is there a rogue tribal deck that kind of synergizes with what he's doing?

[5:39:23] But the problem is he doesn't do Oh, rogue. Rogue rogue. There's no synergy here. Just rogues. Death touch is a nice blocker. You can defend lifelink. Voltron. Voltron. Deir Voltron because death touch works with trample. Lifelink helps you catch up and then draw discard as additional value.

[5:40:07] Yep, we're doing it. So, first equipment that gives Trump Triple and lifelink. We want Deir. Did I not say Deir? I did not. My apologies. My apologies. Um, yeah. Warhammer Trump. This is too big, too expensive. Lean axe. Sick.

[5:40:52] Four bearers blade vigilance Yeah. T what? T45 power armor three doesn't untap. Brilliant. Oh, it's getting worse and worse. Uh is that no on is good. Chariot is good. You can see our standard is dropping just like that. All right. All right. And now why why is this open? I don't know. Uh lifelink. Yeah, I already have lifelink from Okay, but trample. Trample.

[5:41:33] Now double strike because that also kills blockers. Yes. Makes them unbeatable in combat. I think the process of building EDH deck honestly a lot of it is just about lowering your standards. It's like when when your standard is up there everything looks like crap but then the moment you lower it suddenly you're like oh this is great. Wow. Amazing. Holy crap. What does this card do? Yeah. So expectation management is a important part of commander deck building. Brass knuckles.

[5:42:14] That's fine. Double strike is good. Uh, Genji glove. Good. Rover blade. Rover blade is okay. Oh, equip four. Holy crap. Okay, now I doubt we have any equipment synergy, but we should have artifacts right? Anyways, equipment. We'll see. We'll see what kind of equipment energy have. Armory, automaton, anchor to reality. Artifist all equipment. Haste. Hate. That's what it is. Enter the battlefield.

[5:42:55] Attach control instru. Oh, this is good. A great card. Blade of souls. Oh, I can make it copy of another. Oh, eye control. No. I candlestick carry away. This is a rogue payoff equipment except it doesn't allow me to equip more equipments. Do I still play it? I guess it's a rogue tribal deck. equipment. Cranial plating. Big pump. Cryptic coat. Cursed windbreaker. Manifest. No.

[5:43:35] Deathrunner. No. Yeah. And then we want some of the traditional typical equipments. I mean, he cares about getting damage through. So, a few swords. What did I do here? Sword Sure. Might need all the swords just because we are desperate for anything that does anything.

[5:44:22] Not hard at home. Hard home. fine. Sure. Got to make sure we get that damage through so we can loot and uh protection indestructible. Yeah, I think I think we got this set. And my coat for the third time. So, what is the rest of the deck going to do? I'm pretty sure it's going to be artifact manipulation because blue does that. Black doesn't really contribute anything. I think. Yeah, black doesn't do anything.

[5:45:08] Sad. What can we do with artifacts? Not much. Metamorph copy Reservoir. Yeah. Fabricate. Talisman. I guess we can bring equipments back. The ones we loot. This is good. Yeah, Emry is actually not terrible. Urza. Yeah, cuz we because we the artifacts can that the equipments can top for mana.

[5:45:52] And yes, Sai, Master Thopist. Okay, some payoffs. And then next we are going to do some protection for our commander. Again, slip is the best one probably because face out. You keep all your equipments. But aside from that, just counter spells. Oh, and offer you can't refuse. Why are you dealing with our stuff? We are playing garbage. Oh, and of course, we have a awakener. Turn your equipments into And of course, we want cards that have Yeah, equipment tapping is a thing. So, we want cards that have what's it called?

[5:46:34] Not not conspire, not convoke. called I have to find it on a card. Word invention, which is good in the deck. Improvise. Sure. Next has improvise. Target creature. No. Improvise. Improvise. So Improvise. Non artifact spells. You have you cast have improvise. What are we improvising here? Our Nah.

[5:47:15] Nah. This is fine. Draw three cards. Two mana. Good card. Improvise. Synth infiltrator. You may have synth creature on the battlefield except synth artifact improvise. Don't really need it. Yeah, that's all. That is the payoff. Ooh, there's one more. Is there more tap and untapped artifact? We are desperate here. Tap it. Untapped artifact. Yeah, let's let's make mana. Oh, this is fine because gives it gives the commander turnabout power stone.

[5:48:10] terminal network terminal tap and untype artifact draw a card then discard a card. Guess fine. Are we doing anything with the discard? Doesn't seem like it. Yeah, blue is doesn't reanimate. Doesn't reanimate artifacts. So, we're just looting for for value. Okay, we have a deck. 32 cards. 32 cards. Why did I spend so much time on guy? Luck. Cool. I hope I don't see him in the game or he's going to get it. He's in Final Fantasy 6.

[5:48:51] Okay. Barely dodged. Barely dodged my bullet. Suffer off. This guy I know he's important. He's cool. Probably a douchebag. Defin Def definitely doesn't rent because he lives in the main head. Vigilance enters creatures opponent control get minus two. Whenever a creature opponent control dies, he gets bigger. Um, it's six mana. Not great. This seems like the starter deck, right? It's the starter deck card. Is it? So, yeah. Not great, but better than much better than what we had to work with.

[5:49:35] We can do blink. We can do close. I want to clone him a bunch, but the problem with cloning him is that this ability isn't even static. So, you're not going to kill the big stuff. So, never mind about cloning. What else can he do? Vigilance 44. He's play removals, kill things, pump him. Not sure it's worth it to be honest.

[5:50:16] Yeah, cuz he comes in, kills two or three creatures. Is it seven? How do you build around minus? Oh, I know. Okay, you do split second 0 one. This kind of crap. This is what you're going to do. Whoops. 02. I think I misremembered. Yes. This is what you do.

[5:50:56] And then once you do that, you continue to trigger Sepharov. You can blink suffer off. Sepharov. Okay. I like this game plan. This is not good, but at least something kind of special. become I think this will do blue black. Yeah, this is the blue black color pie. We are right in the color pie. We're play. We're going to play every single card. What is this? What did I do?

[5:51:40] Creatures become. Yeah, we're going to scroll down to the bad ones. Maybe creatures is your opponent. I don't know if Yeah, is your opponent. Okay. Something wrong here. Your creatures opponent creatures and a slash.

[5:52:28] Let's not do it. Let's see. Well, first this should go in. Yeah, massacre worm. Might as well. Doom with giant. I think we found the right keyword. Just have to scroll down. Target creature gets minus three minus three. Not good enough. Minus one counter. Ven. Nope. Flat line. There you go. There you go. Humiliator.

[5:53:11] Yes. Oh, and we need this one card. Yeah. Yeah. We need C. What's it called? Exodon. Yes. Exit. Turn face down. Uh, this is situational, but this I mean you can draw two cards, which is fine. I mean, gruesome realization doesn't do anything.

[5:53:56] Rags to riches. No. Arc fiend of Soros. No plague engineer. No creatures you control. No, it's too Where's the one I was looking for? There's a spell that creatures your opponent's control become something. not get minus something something creatures become one one I was going to do this become one one hunted family this is kind of cool seven mana what really seven mana not really okay and there's one cursed roll

[5:55:02] flash. This is solid in our deck. And then 01 creatures have base. Maybe this is which I should search for. Master Minist. There you go. That's what I should have searched for. A slush monster. It's fine. Yeah. Yeah. Now we have 11 cards that have decent synergy with our commander.

[5:55:45] Should be more. See? Minus one. Minus one counter. Seriously, how do you just ignore the minus one minus one? How on creature? Maybe not. Maybe each creature, not target creature. C R E A H on creature. Okay, we'll see. Oh, we are in the right color for talks through, are we not?

[5:56:26] We are. Beautiful. Okay, next. There's another thing I want to search for. I forgot what it's called. I forgot. Oh boy. Why? Why? Why? Spark double. Spark double. Yeah, we Okay, we're starting to do clones because we want multiple Sephro triggers, especially if they stick around. So, we're not against doing that. Creature dying cost trigger minus.

[5:57:11] It's strange. Although I feel like we're not missing too much. This is what we have to work with. So now we're going to do copy target non-leendary. Not legendary. So that we get all the spark double-ish clones. Do we? We do not. Uh why not? Question. Why not? Oh, because it doesn't target copy except I'm just going Sakashima.

[5:57:58] I know Sakashima. Whoops. And we want ways to blink suffer off, but we want to keep the counters. So, keep counters. What's that card too much. It is an artifact.

[5:58:38] It is one mana. The name is like it is why move counters. That's why the Oelith. Sure. And next we are going to play some blink spells to keep triggering suffer. Sure. I saw return blue not Yes.

[5:59:21] I return. Why not? Oh, because one Okay, there you blink, blink, blink. And now that we are getting suffer triggers, lots of suffer triggers. And maybe cloning suffer off. I just remember we have to there's one more card that turn creature face down because we don't have enough of these.

[6:00:05] I this guy. Yes. Lifted harvester. And we want whenever creature dies. See, we got we got this energy. We got the engine kind of going on. It's kind of iffy. It's kind of sketchy. But now we don't want these because I don't think we're killing creatures in mass. But we absolutely want Mik Cook is actually good. Mik Cook is actually good. But we we want things like black market. Yeah, I want the other one. What's the other one?

[6:00:45] Yeah, like grim. No, you control revel in riches. Yes. And then whenever a creature like this kind of stuff, harvester of souls, whenever something dies, you draw a card. Talk to this goes in. It's excellent. Yeah. And this is our Sepharoth deck. How do we win with a big And so now that we are blinking and cloning suffer off, I feel like I just feel like we're missing something. Your opponent's creatures are And no, I think we can keep their board clear and attack through.

[6:01:33] Okay, that's our Sephar off deck. No. Uh we are going to select all go to new category called Sepharov. Nice. Next up, Alt Messia. Ultimsia time sorceress. Whenever Ultia enters or attacks, 2. Are we doing this again? No, but she looks like she's got some some story. I mean, look. Look at this. No way. It's simple. End step. Oh, you pay this as our eight cards transform.

[6:02:17] This creature transforms into it's a time walk. Oh, okay. I am stumped. What do we do with this? Yeah, there's no way we are doing building around the time lock cuz it's it's not happening. What? eight mana. Exile eight cards. And even if you pay for it, what's the point of time walking when you when you're spending all the mana in a turn on that you can play I guess you can play creatures be aggressive or something like planes walkers. But again, we're not building around this this ability. Looks like we have to build around Surveil 2. And again, this is different than the previous ones like lock or the other the Ratos ones because it's five mana.

[6:03:02] It's expensive and surveil 2 more uh still more. So, it's more of a midame kind of thing. Graveyard synergies. So, I think just a graveyard value deck with our commander that eventually has some kind of very little in inevitability. Yeah, I a really cool card with sweet art. I mean, look at this heart, right? We want to make her work. And yeah, we can do something like where your opponents only see the front side pretty much four games out of five and then in that one game you transform. It's like holy crap. That is sweet. That is a sweet card.

[6:03:43] Time it will not wait. No matter how hard you hold on, it escapes you. Wow, look at that. You transform and you read that to your opponent, they will be terrified. Okay, so graveyard matters seems graveyard matters. So maybe we do something like cast from graveyard. I know surveil surveil is kind of a theme was kind of a theme in that round block, but I don't think I don't think it's a lot of stuff or anything too good color. My apologies.

[6:04:28] I know we have like four legends left and I messed up in the first 50, but this is the last time. I will get it right. I will get it right. Grave collar. Wait, what type is our girl here? Ultramsia. Human Warlock. Human Warlock. Okay. Necromancy. Bring stuff back. Consuming aberration. But we're playing with our own graveyard. So yes, start with Yagamas world and build build from there. See what happens. Um, moving primordial metallergic summoning. I are we do a spellbased deck or just a good stuff deck in Demir.

[6:05:09] I think I think we might be more spell- based. So, let's just do this. Put this here for now. Yeah, there we go. Grave breaker. Lameia spells from graveyard cost one What? Uh, Giza and Gerro. No, not zombies. Oops. What happened here? Okay. deserity memory blunder. Yeah. So, a lot of these are casting from opponent's graveyard, but stuff like river kelpie. Yeah, I think we can make it up like this. Uh, somehow grave breaker and metal didn't go in. So, we go.

[6:05:49] Yeah, might as well just do a flashback, right? Flashback, jump start and all that. We've got enough. This one, draw a card of Var. Discard a card. If you discard, it's sorcery. Sacrifice. Yeah. Yeah. This is the kind of card we want. Snapcaster. Secrets of the dead. Yes. Guess what? We did the right search. Yes. Gearhulog. Sure. Got like a more traditional, nothing too crazy. Graveyard deck is fine. Uh, binding. No. I like this. Uh, wait. Five.

[6:06:30] So, one plus four to return a spell and then whenever you cast a spell, you get a honor. And see, this is the kind of stuff where you have you have to evaluate it based on the first mode because the other ones are just not good. If the first one the floor is bad, then you don't play it. And the floor here is not what we want. We There are decks that want this, but not not ours. Jace, of course. Oh, and there was a there's like a similar card to Jayce in the instro block. I'll try to find that and then we're we're done for for this for this search. Uh Hak or something Hak can't remember. Oh, and that one. Oh, that one doesn't cast behavior.

[6:07:11] That's fine. Never mind. It's not enough to chase. All right, then. Flash back. Flash. Sorry. analysis. Absolutely. Army of the dead. No sncaster. Sure, why not? Lear. Yes. Think twice. Maybe we don't have do we have enough payoff for casting from graveyards? No, we don't play creatures, so we're not going to play Cly, but we do play spells aside from insight from Alchemy. Sure. Evviserators inside memory illusions.

[6:07:59] Yes. Yeah. So, we still I still think we need more payoff. But can we find that or do we just naturally get value? We will see. Cars in graveyard. Let's How about that? Cars in graveyard. Yeah. Yeah, ag probably coming in if we have it. Whoops. Mine's burning alive. Factor fiction. Yeah, this kind of graveyard filling artifacts from graveyard with Emory. We don't have artifacts yet. Drown in the lock. Number of cards in his controller, but that's not what we're doing here.

[6:08:43] Me. What does this do? Finale. Draw 10 No chemical Aftermath. Uh, not this one, but aftermath is good. Yeah. Little Allergic. We have already search for Scand. Yes, that's this kind of deck for search for Scand. Now, the question here, the problem here is Yeah, winning will be difficult. We can't again depend on our commander to beat people down with that transform. So see if we can find some kind of honestly with the commander transform it might be doable because we just need one or two massive game ending equipments, right?

[6:09:37] For example, or aura equal to in graveyard. this kind of card. Hopefully some some pump in uh in equipments or some kind of aura. Excuse me. Nighthawk scavenger. How about this? Each opponent no one doesn't do it. Sir Ginger doesn't it. Huh? Crow fage mail four cards power toughness number of creature cards in all graveyards.

[6:10:20] No. Yeah, I think this is this is it. Glendering. Glendering equal creature has first strike and gives plus one plus for each instant or sorcery card in your graveyard. One second. When ultimacia uh at the end step. Okay. So then you transform untapped and you put this on. Goku deals combat damage to a player. You may cast an instance spell. Yeah, I think this might be good. But then uh no, we are casting things from our Yeah. So it doesn't really work with these cards. Never mind. Yeah, like jump start uh you know flashback. So then we have to do the more traditional spelling when conditions like whenever cast spell like shark typhoon shark typhoon hallbreaker.

[6:11:21] Yes. Hallbreaker horror horror displacer kitten. In theory the kitten can kind of you know go infinite with her commander. You can just transform it, blink it, transform again. As long as your opponents don't have an op uh what's it called? A uh removal or an answer, then you win. So, we do really have trouble closing out games. So, we will have this as kind of an option. Yeah. Also, blinking isn't terrible. Like, you can get to you get to protect your things kind of and you get to reuse like your commander's servo, too. Yeah. Let's use it. Yes, sure. And then shark testing.

[6:12:03] Nezahal doesn't really fit the theme of the deck, but this card is just nuts. Like the moment you play that Nahal, he becomes your connect. It's that good. Also, Ledger Feather. It's good. Yeah, we need cards that fill our graveyard that are good. And these two are some of the best. Ver is my shark typhoon. There it is. Okay. Yeah, we have a deck. All right, let's move it. Her name is Wonderfully. Yes. Okay, good. Now, this Ze dark mage, it's a statue.

[6:12:47] He cosplays as a statue and then surprises people when they when they approach, but then people know because they that's why they're here. They're here to beat the dark mage. But your struggle was all for not. Do you see how close the darkness has drawn? Well, let's see how close the darkness has drawn. Menace Zande gets plus one plus one for each non creature non card in your graveyard. Not very close. This is I think the worst rare we've seen. so far, right? We're what what are we doing? Do we play a control deck and then just use him as a natural finisher similar to that?

[6:13:29] It's just like that Golgary guy, right? That Golgary guy with the backside getting bigger for each permanent in the graveyard. But this guy is just the same. It'd be boring to play just control and then win with it. Would it be boring? Would it be inefficient? Cuz we need like seven. Not seven. No, no, no. We just need four, six. You know what? I think it's doable. Yeah, cuz we play a lot of smaller spells and he can grow fast. We just need eight cards for this to be twoshot. So, we don't even need to have to like, for example, traumatize ourselves. But, of course, we're going to play traumatized because it's one shot.

[6:14:09] So, okay, he's fine. I kind of didn't pay attention to the actual size of him because he's three already. And then you can plus a bunch of Okay. Then we just play a bunch of small spells. Yeah. Alex Thoscower. No. And some control control cards. Maybe temple. Maybe. We'll see. Uh so we search for cards that are blue and black that are small less than three.

[6:14:58] And we want none creature non land. Okay. We want non creature non land. Uh, lander. Boom. Okay. Yeah, we just played the best ones. Sure. Let's add a fire rocks, but we prioritize the ones that uh that the ones that can help fill the graveyard while they're doing their thing. I guess we should have counter spell. Yes, sure. Rift. Sure. Cast for mana. Dark SH.

[6:15:39] Not really. The gate can offer tutor. Sure. Yeah, we are bringing this up to level what's it called? Bracket four before we even have a strategy. Brainstorm. Sure. Mystic fora draws his cards and fills the graveyard with non creature non land card. Swan song is is counter spells the only thing we can do in the mirror and removals. Let's go to yes removals. We want those. We don't want flesh lens. It doesn't touch pre-ordaining is good.

[6:16:19] Villager rights. No tops. Rapid hybrization. Sure. Draw cards. And so we have a lot of really low to the ground spells that hopefully we can control very early on in the game. We can make this guy 7 seven very early and possibly more. So what uh yeah and something like black bit is also nice for later on in the game. But what I really want is because we are depending on our commander a lot.

[6:16:59] So we have to do you know equipment griefs griefs boots then of course protection spells move instant down. Fleeting No. Oh, magic temper.

[6:17:39] This is good. Shall shield shore up. These are good cards. Okay. So, we protect our commander and uh he have a menace. So, a decent chance of going through, but just some unblockable. I don't even want not sure I want unblockable cards cuz it's we want a few. We want a few. Okay, unblockable. We want it in We don't It could be could be anything. Could be lands. It could be World's Passage. Oops. So, we will Yeah, we will search for that. Whoops. What did I do wrong?

[6:18:20] Unblockable Commander U. Um, can't be blocked. Is it changed now? Can't be blocked. I don't like how they don't include the old text, but only the oracle text. Just because I mean, what if people don't know about the the old text, right? Yeah. Whisper good access tunnel does not work. Aquous form, no. Brotherhood, regalia is good. Yes. The black gate, absolutely. Also, there was the the shisel or something. Yeah. And this deck will be fairly aggressive and you also get to answer things, not just uh going all in, right?

[6:19:04] So, it's kind of go. All right, moving on to Azorius. Today we have Absolute Virtue. And this one I do know about the lore even though I didn't play Final Fantasy 11. It's just such a meme almost. I read about it. It's apparently a boss that's impossible to beat. Takes players what 30 40 hours to beat. I can only imagine that. And they took turns, but like now I'm six hours into this video and I'm like I can barely hold on. But anyways, I'm glad this one is near the end cuz this is I mean one of the legends that I'm most excited for.

[6:19:52] I'm not sure how exciting it would be to play against, but because of this top down and the flavor, I think there's something really cool we could do. Absolute virtue, eight mana. This spell can't be countered. Flying. You have protection from each opponent. Now, protection from each opponent means a lot. It basically means you cannot lose the game. There are some ways for them to get around it, but you know, damage is all prevented. You they cannot target you. So, I think what we're going to do with this deck is fairly clear is that we are going to ramp out Absolute Virtue and then just protect it. That's our entire game plan, right? Your opponent is have it's like a raid boss, right? Your three opponents probably know about your game plan and they will have to work together to figure out how to beat you before you you do eight eight eight and kill them out.

[6:20:40] they have time and this is not fast but this can be kind of annoying to play against if your opponents are newer to the game and they don't know how to work around things like protection things like you know for example you were going to give it indestructible but again with this commander I feel like this is the right way to build it just so flavorful and so different than other decks other commanders so absolute virtue now we have protection protection means basically hex proof yeah I mean you don't need hexroof on this guy and also So not indestructible. So how can your opponents kill this? They can make you sacrifice. They can uh they cannot counter it. They can destroy it with a board wipe.

[6:21:22] Is that it? I mean they can bounce it. Yeah. Like cyclonic rift. So these are the only ways for them to deal with absolute virtue. So we're going to find some protection. Now we're going to start with indestructible, of course. Uh let's And also, I think we Yeah, I think I'm not sure if we're going to prioritize spells, like instance or artifacts, but a bit of both would be nice. I'm thinking spells more just because you're in blue. You are capable of refilling your hand, especially this deck will have a lot of rep, right? So, we can Okay, let's see.

[6:22:03] Indestructible. And I think I want games, right? because we don't we don't want to find indestructible creatures. So, let's see. White should have a bunch. Blue, not so sure. Blue, I don't think has any. Yeah. Okay, let's start off. Okay. Of course, lands are always good. Lauren skate. Excellent. Blacksmith uh smith will. Yeah. Final showdown. Yeah, this card is ridiculous. It is a protection spell that's attached to a word wipe. Valerous Sure.

[6:22:44] Anything else? Take up the shield. Great card. Lifelink. Celestial armor. Uh, divine resilience. Selfless samurai. Although these selfless cards are not bad because they protect you against indestructible and single like a single sacrifice, single edict or like flesh flashback or something. So maybe we play yeah for example selfless savior and maybe the samurai. Although at this point we can just play we can just play selfless spirit. I guess h why not let's play them. Also, playing these ahead of time is nice because you're dropping Absolute Virtue as soon as you can and chances are you might not have meta open, right?

[6:23:31] So, you know what? I'm gonna play all of them. Yeah, probably get it. Sure. Carameress Blessing does not work. Fight as one does work. No, it does not work. Bodyguard does not work. Does not work after the fact. It only works I mean it doesn't work if you play it first. Yeah. So, sheltering light. How many do we have here? We got a 13. 13 is not Convoke. So, this is basically one mana just because you can always tap your commander to convoke because you don't need to block. There's no point blocking. Really? Okay. We have a an adventure for that.

[6:24:14] Cool. Cool. Cool. And honestly, I don't think we need a ton. I might cut a few just because the only thing these are protecting us from is board wipes, right? And board wipes doesn't happen as often as something like path to exile or like spot removal. So maybe we'll cut a few of these and maybe we will put in some cards that are more, how do you say, they can dodge more than one type of removal. Like I want cards that can bounce, sacrifice, and destroy. And the only card that does that, the only cards that do that are phasing out and blink, slow blink. But the problem when you phase it out and slow blink is that you you lose protection. Your opponents can alpha strike you.

[6:24:56] But I still think you have to include a few of them just to Yeah. just to protect your commander. Let's usually they can't kill you in one turn, right? Usually your commander's gone. They have this window, small window. Yeah. So you're usually fine. But yeah, we'll include a few of those. So first face out out face out sort uh clic concealment costs three mana to do protection. Are you sure? Is this the only game changer we need to play? Possibly. So who we'll see.

[6:25:36] Talon gates on the other hand is ridiculous. So good. Um, sniff out the back. Absolutely. Tefairy. Just afairy. Nope. Doesn't protect our creatures. Gadrials just dismissal is one of the better ones. Proliferate. We don't need proliferate. Roll of the stars. Yes, it cost two mana and two mana to activate. But yeah, it dodges pretty much. Yeah, like once this is equipped, your commander is safe. The robe can be destroyed, but your commander is just always safe. Wait a second. No, the robe is safe, too, because the robe faces out too. Yeah. The moment the robe is attached, your you can't your your camera cannot be killed. The only chance they can the only chance they have is to make you use it and then attack you.

[6:26:25] Stack vanishing. Yeah. Oh, vanishing is Wait, this is the same as robe, is it? I guess we play it. I think this is enough. Yeah. And yeah, 20 like 19 pieces of protection including land. Yeah, I think this is fine. Now we need lots of ramp. Lots of Whoops. Add I'm thinking 15 to 20 pieces of rep, which leaves us 20 spots in the deck for something else.

[6:27:13] And we want Yeah. We want the most aggressive, most the greediest rep because as soon as you get your commander out if they I mean blast is fine. It's fine. Just protect your commander. Yeah. So stuff like Wait, we'll wait. We will first animal go to Lotus. Sure. Archive Power Stone Archive is okay. Yeah. Again, this is not definitive. You can play whatever rep you like, but I like since your commander is eight mana, I want the ones that, you know, like four mana add two, four mana add three, three mana add two, this kind of stuff rather than a two mana rock.

[6:27:59] 1000 rocks in this deck is less value. Uh yeah, you get the idea. So I'm thinking 15 to 20 pieces of rep. And after that, you have 20 more slots. But the play pattern of this deck, what I wanted to be to be like thematic is that we don't really worry about what our opponents our opponents are doing. We don't answer their stuff. All we do is cast a commander, protect it, and win with a commander. So I Yeah, I I'm tempted for also for to be fair, right? You don't deal with you don't interact with them. They don't interact with you. Uh so to for fairness and flavor, I don't want to put in any removal or any interaction against your opponents.

[6:28:46] Not even counter spells, just protection spells. Well, this is by choice though. You can definitely do something different. So, for the remaining cards, I'm not 100% sure what to do, but I know one thing I want to do is I want to play a little bit of pump because you want to you want to kill them in surprise two hits. Yeah, the surprise kill is usually what people they expect you to take three turns, but you can do it in two turns. So, what we need for that is to give plus five, which can be difficult in a blue white Uh, plus so I think it might have to be equipments or maybe auras for plus one plus x.

[6:29:26] Let's see if we can find plus x Yes, I can't think of equip a few equipments, but aura or idolized. Nope. Uh, staff. A bone horde. Katilda. What's Katilda? Number of permanent you can throw that are spares or enchantments. That does not help. Tested frying pen. Uh gain one No strength. Testing hammer. Roll a No razor field.

[6:30:09] No hand of. Yeah, there. This is the kind of card. This can easily give plus five. Plus five. matrix too expensive. Okay. What about aura? There are no auras. Plus one. I plus one for Yeah, plus one. Four each maybe or four. Yeah, plus one four. See if I can find something. I know the black. Oh. Oh, that clears. What is that? Nope. Although plus five might be achievable just because of how many rocks you have, but I want something ideally a little bit more consistent or a little bit more independent of other things like black blade. Just five mana and you can kill someone pretty quickly.

[6:30:52] Nettle with no mantle of the engines. No lion slash ding dagger. I thought there'd be some Oh, this aura playing super control. Uh, we're probably not going to have five plays. Stratosythe, no. Imperial plate. Yes. Easily plus five. authority. Yeah, this easily plus five again. I think that's all.

[6:31:32] I think this is enough. We got we got how many of these? We got five four or five of these. What is this? Sigual distinction. Put X charge counters on it. Plus X move. So we have to pay six mana and then it's plus five. It's not bad. Do we have enough? Well, we'll do these for now. Oh, and also I just uh I did a dump. Clearly clearly the rest of the deck has to be draw spells. Yeah, there's no there's no other cards. because we're don't because all the cards we're playing are really low value, right? Meta rock uh protection. So, we need cards that recoup all this lost card advantage. So, card blue, white, and uh doesn't matter what type instance and sorceries are usually but yeah, I think we should look at the type of instance and sorceries.

[6:32:37] sorcery. This video should be titled six hours of me learning how to use track and not mess up. I mean how to use scrifall and not up. Uh windfall frantic search. Windfall honestly not terrible in this deck. It's because you don't really like your thing is not messing with your opponents. But but maybe in blue we don't have to be this extreme with our why are the low cost draws so so popular they're not I don't I don't play them in most decks Seagate of course for tomorrow um born upon a wind I like this but two is expensive there's a there's one in white that does the same which is nice because you can flash in your commander.

[6:33:31] Speaking of flashing in your commander, that flash man should I will get it later. Uh Laurian revealed. Yes, great card. Sure. Finale. I think blue has been power crap. It's only popular because people are not using the new ones yet. But this one is like number five, number six best x. And also my favorite like the best crossb is not even being played in my opinion. It is recurring insight. If you don't care too much about instant speed interactions in sighted record in Yeah, honestly it's your personal preference because once you have your commander out, you probably have like eight or nine mana and you have three mana up to protect it and with current insight, you can you can make phase

[6:34:35] no problem. And main phase ones are usually more efficient. Okay, we've got the deck draw spells protection and rep. That's it. That's it. And a little bit of pump. Honestly, even pump feels feels impure because you want to give your opponents time to deal with this cuz again, it's only it's only fun if you if this drags out for a little bit. So, you kill one opponent in three, hits another one in three, another one in three. But then nine is nine turns is way too slow. So, I think two turns per opponent is kind of bare, kind of reasonable. You have to you have to judge. Yeah, but this is what we'll have to test and see what the play pattern is like. But for now, we have a deck the what's it called again?

[6:35:20] Absolute virtue AV. Okay, Sid, Timeless Artificer. Next, this one I also looked at and I also didn't have much idea on how to build because it does a lot of things. It does artifacts. It does, you know, having multiple copies so you can do the throwing stone stuff and also it's got cycling. And a lot of the lists I see are it's like a mixture of all of that and there's no focus which again sit already isn't a really powerful card to begin with. And if your deck is kind of everywhere, I don't think it's going to work too well. So after looking at it, I realized the only only good like only efficient or good thing that it does is like pumping artifacts, right?

[6:36:09] Because if you cycle just three or four SIDs, now every SID is like an overrun for your artifact creatures. So this might be what we do. Just artifact beat them. Play maybe 15 or 20 SIDs and SID. Yeah, Sid is your commander, but you have 15, 20 more. And uh go nuts. Cycle them. Cycle them and play a bunch of cheap and artifacts. Yeah, I think we want our creatures to be really cheap so that we have mana for cycling and uh we can swarm the board early to take advantage of Sid. So, I want to try that. I want to try that. I'm not sure how many how many efficient artifact creatures there are, but I think we're going to play lot of them.

[6:36:56] Yeah. So, artifact artifact creature creature and uh blue white at the same time. We want the mana value to be less than less than let's say three. Yeah, let's be aggressive. Let's be aggressive. See what we can get. Did I not say archive creatures? Did Did stutter? Oh, partial matches of course. 6 hours in. I still don't know how to use scrile.

[6:37:38] I feel smart. Okay, let's sort. This is not looking good. Two mana. Two one. Good. As for Sentinel Ornithopter is ornithopter. Yeah, I think it's good. Yo, let's play all the play all the zero drop ones. Why not? Let's play uh like what's it called? Ornithopter. ornithopter. Okay. Ethereum copper definitely. Ornithopter. Yeah, sure. Mirror retriever. Ornithopter. Yes. Spell sky. Yes. To protect sid and spell can attack.

[6:38:23] overseers bit slow but still good I think. Skirith scriff toxic one metallic movement can metallic move it choose artifact creatures. It cannot lion sash yeah these are all good cards. Lion sash ginger brute. Okay, we're we're going deep. We're going deep. Stone coil. Great card. Uh, hanger walker. Sure. Marvin. Does Marvin do anything? Nope. Each legendary has w too. Okay, Might ether sworn.

[6:39:06] Yes. Ether sworn. Good card. Hope of gear. Sure. Sir Ginger. Yeah, because I'm going a bit deeper here because I I want to see what the deck kind of looks like. Afflict three for artifact creatures. Do we need that? Sure. Too dark. K9. What's K9 doing? No. Ferro Revoker Crystal. Securron Squadron. Argon ravager. No, it's too too deep. Signal pass is not too deep.

[6:39:47] Medicican core. Oh, it's like it's made for this deck. Okay, so we have a board of small creatures and art, small artifact creatures. And so, yeah, the game plan is we got what, 20 of these, 19 of these, and then we play 15 SIDs and cycle the SID. And but the problem with SID against the cycling cost is so high. Is there anything that reduces cycle? Uh, let's try it. Cycling. Cycling. If we don't have that, we might have to play some dig spells that dump cards into the graveyard.

[6:40:27] Um, cycling blue, white. Let's see what we find. There's one card that makes things cycling a thing. Not sure. Oh, yeah. This is not a good cycle. Yeah, I'm just looking. I'm just getting every single second. Fluctuator cost two less to activate. Does not work. 58 cards. Yeah, I cannot think of too many cycling synergy. When I recycle a card, when I recycle a cart. No, no, no, no.

[6:41:11] So, we don't have much synergy to work with. And I guess we could play uh what's the Astral Slide, but blinking doesn't really help us too much. It kind I guess it kind of protects other things, but not too much. Okay, then we whatever use cycle. See if we can get something. I don't think so. The best make a token. No. No. No. Uh, pay one exile artifact or creature. No. So, we don't get to really reduce cycling.

[6:41:53] So, I guess every turn the game plan is drop. No, early early turns the game plan is to drop. They saw like turn one, one drop, turn two, two drop. Turn three, a one drop and a cycling. Turn four, cycle cycle. Turn five, drop a sid, and you attack for, you know, plus four. It's a bit slow, but we can make the game plan more resilient with the reanimating small stuff cards like uh return X creatures creatures from graveyard. Guess we're going we're as well here.

[6:42:35] Any other payoff for small creatures? see. Dance of the mans return to X if X is six. So eight mana for them to be big. This is fine just because we pay five mana return three things, Yeah. Not the worst. Immortal obligation. Nope. Rally ancestors. Exel them. Exile those at the beginning. I don't want to exile them. No. Return creatures from graveyard. What did I Oh, the mana.

[6:43:16] Yeah. Some sometimes annoying when you don't know which way you did wrong. Is it the the text or is it the mana or you just forgot to not set something? But we we we eventually find it. Now the internet's a bit slow. I guess they're sick and tired of me looking at Scrifall the Architect for all day, half a day, and trying to warn me about the dangers of getting addicted to things. Maybe Dusk to Dawn. Great card. Reteather. No. Redemption quite no salvation Yes, it's a pump and it recurs.

[6:44:03] Although the recursion part is not really not really efficient. Got a crew six smile at death return up to two power two or less. Put a each of those five minutes really expensive. We want it to be bigger. Rally. We saw that one. Aurelius Vindicator Xtarget creatures. No. What about wake? Isn't there one from foundations return? Oh, could it be each creature? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's the word when it specifies like a certain CMC is each creature. We'll see if that's correct.

[6:44:45] Are we wrong? Second sunrise death. No, we are wrong. So, uh, there's another card, too. I forgot the name, but it's white. It's four is two and two white. So, CMC is four and it is white. And it says graveyard. It has to say graveyard. It has to say graveyard. Okay, we'll find it. We'll find just that one card to see if it works. Um, yeah, this is also another one. What's wrong with this? Return all creature and planes walker cards with mana value X.

[6:45:28] Okay, so it's creature. Oh yeah, creature. Okay, creature cards. Okay. Yeah, good I brought back. Can I find it or not? I cannot. Okay, there's how many of these are there? Why? No, never mind. I give up. I give up. But I'll put it on the screen if I remember. But aside from that, this is a deck and I think we have to play some protection spells. Yeah, cuz we're not super fast and your opponents will find a board.

[6:46:11] So, board indestructible creature indestructible. Is there a card that says artifacts get indestructible? Creatures indestructible once again. Boom. Boom. indestructible. Just add in a few. And we also want to add in some artifact pop to see if there's any corros. Well, absolutely. Best best protection. Flawless maneuver. Sure. Uh Montra any good?

[6:46:55] monument. We don't go that Crescendo. Final showdown. Everybody lives. Uh, make a stand. Make a stand is good. So, pumps your board, too. We need the pump. Okay. Then we look for some Artifact creatures. Plus go. This is Oh, we are playing. What's a tempered steel in EDH? How sweet is that? How sweet is that? Tempered steel. Can we find it? Artifact creatures. Artifact creatures. Yes, they must wonder.

[6:47:38] Tempered steel. Master of Absolutely. Oops. Uh, Untus. Is that good? It's not even a not even a what's it called? Artificer. Okay. But yeah, this is the skeleton of deck. Honestly, I came in with no idea, but I This looks decent. It might not be as fast as I hoping it to be, but Sid does pump for a fair bit. I mean, it was like a static overrun for four mana, And when they kill your commander, you can just place subsequent cysts that you draw. You don't have to pay any commander attacks.

[6:48:20] So the entire time you just need four mana to to function for like to do things. So yeah, seems cool. We can play this deck. We can probably go like 35 L maybe lower. New category. Sid. Sid. Sid. Sid. Oops. Sid. Sid. Sid. Hope. Esti. Oh, I forgot to do the flavor for Sid because he's super interesting. I have to guess what he is. But this one is kind of obvious. He probably appears in every game and in different form, right? And probably has the same job in every game.

[6:49:01] And yeah, just a like it's like the Pokemon Poke Center nurse and the Pokemon lady. Also, what's her name? Jenny the cop. And I am ruining I'm ruining my reputation in the Pokemon world, I'm sure. Uh, but yeah. Anyway, sid hope estim link at the beginning of your endst step each opponent mills x cards where x is the amount of life you gain turn. What the what kind of ability would trigger this kind of top down design? You mail your opponent. So, it's like you're stealing knowledge and you're also healing yourself, but you steal how much you determines how much you steal.

[6:49:49] If we have the power to destroy cocoon, then we'll have the power to save it. It's just a very conflicted individual, right? This guy like, do I want to mill? Do I want life? And this all this in white blue just this kind of dissonance they're going for, I'm sure. Yeah, this is what they're trying to do. It's like what? You're milling and life gain in blue. I mean, this seems fairly obvious in that we want to gain life. Do we want to gain life? Yep. But once we gain the life, what can we do? Like how can we benefit from cards being in your opponent's graveyards? And the for for gain life, like for example, if I take uh what's it called?

[6:50:33] Uh no, not boon reflection. Beacon beacon of immortality. If we take this for example, this is like the big play. Oh, six mana. Boom. double my life total and then I mill each opponent. But then even that is like you're milling each one for just 36. Why not just play like traumatiz or traumatized or the you know the mass traumatized they released I forgot the name casualty with casualty. So let's think give it a again I'll give it you know 10 20 seconds. What can we do with this lifelink? When it hits someone, we gain we mill everyone for Uh each opponent mills X cards and also your deck doesn't really is not going to benefiting from opponent's graveyards.

[6:51:32] You're not black. Blue is decent. like you can seal some spells no. So I think we still have to go for the life game life game plan and when we gain life we incidentally mill our opponents as like a backup backup win condition. So we we'll see what kind of unique stuff we have in blue for life game. Let's see blue game life. I doubt there's any honestly. I mean blue cars can be life but payoff in terms of payoff we and also you have to do a light game on your main face like on your turn not main face and that's just so What happened to gaining life man?

[6:52:24] Gain life. Illusion of grandeur game 20 lawyers. That's true. Blue does gain life. Game 10. Game 20. Marina V. Whenever you get life, draw that many cards. Whenever you lose sight, just draw that many What? What? That's Can we play this? I mean, if your entire deck is lightning, no way you No way. You have zero cards in hand, right? And when you lose life, Oh, yeah.

[6:53:08] If any deck can play this, I think this deck. Yeah. Okay. Suddenly, we went from something awful and weird into I like it. Just this one card makes the I know it's strange, but just play being able to play this one card makes this deck kind of worth looking forward to because Yeah. What other deck can play this card blue? Okay. Sugar coat gain life. Yeah. Lifet gain life. No, that's it. Okay. Okay. I guess we're going to play some white life gang stuff blue white again only working on your turn is painful.

[6:53:58] Your commander is really cheap at two meta. So is it just better for us to link life rather than playing those lightning spells? We'll see how good lightning spells are. Okay, we'll see how good they are. But I don't think they would be amazing. Ether flux. Sure, it's a payoff, but we can't really rely on this to gain life for us because we're not storming off with spells. And again, cards like Soul Warden don't work. Um, they don't work well. A hammerous archive. Sure. Double left game. I guess this can play similar kind of to a combo deck because there are cards that say double mill, not too many.

[6:54:41] There are cards that say double life gain, not too many. But you have a bunch of those. You play one, you play another, and suddenly gaining 25 life, gaining 20 life will kill your right? So maybe we do that. War of Lost Dreams stay. Play it. Approach of the second sun. Now we're not approaching. Fumigate. Excellent game card. Although when you fumigate, you're not going to trigger your commander anymore because he's dead. But but other left cards have flare of fortitude which is Really?

[6:55:25] Where else is our life going to off? Sun. No. Torch does not work. When it says external is nice, but it's all it does is light game. It doesn't gain that much double game. Solitude. Okay. I I will find some from memory. Is this the kind of life game payoff you want? If Okay. Yeah. Getting four four angels per life gain is per turn is not terrible. Kind of amazing. I feel like we're kind of limited in terms of options.

[6:56:06] Like this one just straight up frost card turn. That's not good enough. You're in blue. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Some life can off. What this celestine return creature access the amount of life you gain. Okay, this is fine. It's a payoff. How does this gain us life? Pay life. Life and gains indestructible. Of course, whenever you gain life, get draw a card. Again, we don't have on our opponent's turn. So, this is limited to one card turn, which is not good enough. Sings revelation, great instant doesn't work on our turn.

[6:56:48] So, yeah, this is the late game payoff, right? Aani, exotic, all your opponent stuff. If you have 55 life, angelic accord, okay, why not? Nath's paragon is nice because the lighting it kind of stacks with your commander. You gain five life, your commander becomes a 7 seven and the next turn you will gain seven life. Your commander becomes a 1212 super slow but you're a life in deck. What more can you do? Faithful mending tang good? No, not really. Sure. Play all. And yeah, double life game. We want There's a new card, the crystal, right? It gives life game. Double life game.

[6:57:32] Yeah, this should do. Double life gain. What does this do? Angel of destiny. And start. If you have least 50 more life, then start life each player. Oh, this is a light payoff. like it's super slow but I mean again you're like it won't work you will be playing thunder so skull good sure it's not great but ver vir is my gain life total oh I my apologies twice is the word twice gain boom reflection Uh fail of file of galadriel.

[6:58:20] Five or less life. No. The wind crystal. Yes. Now I want Bruvac. That's it. Isn't there a curse? Oh, but that curse is only target opponent. I want each opponent. Okay, so we've got double life gain kind of double mill and and let's find the best cards for life. Did I just do the same search earlier? I think I did. Yeah, because the life the cards that gain life and the cards that trigger off life gain have the same they say gain Uh what are the best cards for gain life?

[6:59:10] I'm starting to think we can't really only gain life on your our main phase because some of the best life gain cards are triggering on your opponent's turns. But then a lot of the synergy work. So something like this helio intervention. But this one you 10 mana 16 not the worst. Also we can just use the first mode. The second mode is like late game late game in a pinch. And I think we should also rely a little bit on on a commander for liking. We can uh suit them up suit the commander up to Yeah. So some big big things like black blade blade blade smart black blade.

[6:59:56] Uh what's the other one called? Can't remember the name. Is this this like the last one, but there's H whatever we've got. Yeah, we've got kind of this build. This will need a lot of work. It's only a lot of work, but I think we have to test it to figure out. I've never seen a commander like like this and I never built a deck like this. We'll have to figure out the ratio. You know what? How do you how much light gang? How much mill and Oh yeah, we do want of course some cards that take advantage of the meal. I use one card to represent it. The Luvian from here. Oh, there's also a big flashy card from I think it was Commander Masters.

[7:00:37] I will search for that because it's cool. But the card holding this deck together making me not hate it is the that artifact Marina Scmore. That card. Yeah. So, going to nine. I think this will No, this will not get us there. We need blue. This should get us there. How many noose files are there? Prove me wrong. Well, something is wrong. N CMC CMC. No, less than nine. Of course, can't be wrong again.

[7:01:19] Appropriate this one. This one del three times. Yes. Okay. This is what we're gonna have. Select all. This commander is called Hope. And now we are at Titus, the last multiolor legendary. Yes, I won't be able to do monocolor in the same video. This will be that will be another 6 hours. But I will I will do it in a future future like in the next week I'd say. Yeah, I will try to get the monocolor done because monocol I was just looking at it a little bit and there's some pretty interesting commanders.

[7:02:04] So yeah, let's first look at Titus Bliss Battle Star. So this is the athlete but somehow fights with the with his athletic powers. Yeah, kicking the ball around, I'm guessing. And uh this ball apparently is pretty big in Final Fantasy. I saw a few cards depicting the game. There's there's even a stadium for it. So, let's hope this blast we end on a strong note. Every Blitzer knows when you got the ball, you got to score. Wow. Inspirational. Whenever an artifact you control enters, put a plus one counter. Whenever Titus attacks, tap a creature. Oh crap.

[7:02:46] Whenever an artifact you control well commander is three mana on turn four we play Nope. We just have to play artifact tokens. It's the only way out again. Let me know if you have something else. Mana rock tribal artifact Mana. I feel like someone if if someone's watched not six hours but even two or three hours of this, they would be screaming at me.

[7:03:30] Clear form. Clear form. I want to see is there a clear button. There probably is. I They're They're definitely screaming at me. Clear form, you idiot. Okay. Access Uh rank rank. Yay. Double tokens. Sure. Yeah, we're making all the artifacts to open. S maybe because we're not sure how many artifacts we have to cast white sunlight beautiful although X can't be five X has to be four works li not enough not enough hanging back walker sure that's decent uh yeah this great illustrious wonder Um, treasure map is decent because it makes three treasure tokens.

[7:04:34] Threefold Thunder Hulk. Yeah, this will just be an artifact token stack and then our commander won't do anything. Just you won't be powerful because you're playing against artifact tokens. You'll win with that. Uh, yeah, metalic summonings. Why not? What does this elderorn do? Not what we want. Uh, similacrim synthesizer. Whenever artifact enter creates a token whenever artifact with mana three or better enters out of control. Sharding sphinx. Sure. Or is a prince? No. Swarm.

[7:05:14] Scared swarm. This card is great. Actually great. Uh, toy shop. Creatures you control have base power. equals the number of creatures. Okay, this is good. Whenever one or more non toy creatures attack, create a one- one artifact. Yeah, it's fine. Splicer engineer. Oh, also I just I don't think what we are searching for accounts for treasure token. So, we will do that too. Treasure. Ah, where are we?

[7:06:01] Okay. Academy Yeah. Smother T. Yes. We are bracket four. Monologue tax. Cast your second spell. Sure. I think I think this this will get us like two treasures a turn. One or two a turn. Is that worth it? On average, one or two a maybe not. Maybe not. Smuggler share. Draw a card for each one. You drew two or more cards. Create a treasure for each one. Have two or more. This is also inconsistent. We're not going to get that much that much, I believe. Spells window. Excellent.

[7:06:42] Master of ceremony. What that do? Treasure token. Free. No. Tempting contract. Want to make her treasure. Nope. Reckoner. Bank buster create a treasure token. No, too slow. Treasure chest. If I roll a 10 to No, I can I can draw three cards gain three life or four of them. What? I thought there'd be more mass treasure creators in blue, but apparently not.

[7:07:24] And this is what we have to work with. Okay, now that we have our turtle, we will play our favorite artifact pump person, Cyborg Drive. I will never forget his name now. Cyber Drive. Yay. And then I wish we can play Brut. I'll show you. This will be the sweet the sweetest payoff, but we cannot play it. So, yeah, this is the deck we have. And how we win is we win with our commander. And also, let me have treasure, I guess. Okay, we'll see. For each artifact we control, for each artifact, I don't think there's much for each artifact.

[7:08:10] Um yeah, plus one for each shard effect control arcade sort. Yeah, we can play some equipments. They don't have to go on our commander. They can just beat people down with I guess easily it's giving plus eight plus 10 have large creatures. So Öza. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yes. How we win is with these zero colorless constructs. They get bigger for each artifact. That's how we win. So, where's the saga? This is cheap now, right? Okay, let's I'm just going to copy the text because I know I won't mess it up.

[7:08:53] Plus, plus one for each creature you control. Oh, I'm not Boom. So, basically, every one of these tokens is our commander. It's like our commander. They get big. Yeah. Another This only makes one dig site engineer. Yes. Yeah. Similar. Yes. We put Oops. Uh or is this command tap construct artifact creature with this creature get artifact control? Uh sure.

[7:09:33] Sure. It's not bad. Okay, this is what we have. How many cards now? 23 cards. Okay. And I can think of something else to add. The generic ramp spells, generic uh blue controlling things. Oh, we want to some I once again, this is like the third time today. Okay, I'm forgetting the name. Inspire. Conspire again. I can search for work of invention and it's called improvise.

[7:10:22] you. All your spells have improvise. Okay. Spire and Satur. Great card. War of Invention. Great card. Organic Extinction. I remember that card. Great card. Wait, not Arth Creatures. Sure. Great card. Rocket Matter isn't me anyways. We don't need it. Draw cards. Great card. Synth Infiltrator.

[7:11:06] Sure. Yeah, because this is the payoff for doing what we're doing aside from commander. Okay, so this is the deck for Titus. We are at the end and I will have the link of this in the description. Holy, I don't know what say. I mean, if you're still here, thank you from the bottom of my heart. Why are you still here? But seriously, why? What are you doing with your life? And clearly, you love this content. You can't get enough of me.

[7:11:47] So, subscribe. But most likely, you are asleep. That's how you made it to the sixth hour and deep sleep. My voice cannot wake you up, which is good. But if you're asleep, I have a message for you. Take a deep breath. In, out, in, out. You're feeling relaxed, calm, receptive. When you wake up, you will feel refreshed, stronger, smarter, more Even you'll be a powerful independent thinker free from the shackles of bad building and the first thing you do when you wake up will be to click subscribe on this channel.

[7:12:38] You may not know why but just know that your day will be beautiful. All your days will be beautiful if you do that and you'll even write a comment best video ever. And then you will smile because it just feels right. Yes. Good. I will see you in the next video.
