# A Burn Deck's Path to Bracket 4
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/TUX72FiifQM
date: 2025-06-05 | views: 750 | likes: 28 | comments: 12 | length: 37:27 | words: 6,976 | wpm: 186.6
chapters: 0:00 Commander introduction; 3:18 Resource accumulation; 16:48 Game plan and burn package; 28:51 Utility and protection; 30:28 Land base and final thoughts

[0:01] Since the beginning of time, burn has been one of the most iconic archetypes in Magic. But unfortunately, it does not translate well into commander at all. One mana for three damage is great when your opponent is at 20 life, but a lot worse when you have three opponents at 40 each. So, for years, burn has been relegated to being the butt of jokes. The punch line, yeah, I'll build burn, you'll build conflict, right? Haha. But in 2025, this is the year we turn that laughter into screams and the smell of barbecue. Snowfim Mayhem Dominus is the perfect burn commander. Efficient, difficult to remove, and scales so well to the format. He gave me the confidence to take burn as far as I can in commander.

[0:46] Maybe maybe we can tussle with the big boys, the biggest boys in bracket 4. We'll see. So, let's take a closer look at soulium. The first ability here, doubling all non-combat damage allows us to play a ton of symmetrical burn spells. For example, a rolling earthquake for three will keep soulium alive while dealing six to all your opponents. And if you want to go bigger or if your opponent starts targeting sulfium, we can always use the second ability to discard two cards and give them indestructible. Now, in model red, discarding two can hurt can hurt a lot. So, we need some cards to help recoup this loss. We will share them later. But yeah, speaking of honor red, we really have the short end of the stick here.

[1:27] Everything is difficult up here in the mountains. You have the worst card draw, the worst spot removals, mediocre ramp, pretty much below average everything. Now, to bridge this gap, we'll need to borrow the power of colorless. And for some reason, colorless is just better than red at most things. So, this deck unfortunately will be relatively high cost in terms of budgeting. Uh, but in terms of playing, it's not too difficult. The play style is fairly straightforward, although you would have to gouge when to do things and when to when to lay low. Uh, because I want to mention that I see a lot of list online playing these really aggressive almost group slug effects like what's it called?

[2:10] Sulfuric vortex. Yeah. And you can play that early with sophium. you can put a lot of pressure on your opponents, but in this deck, we are avoiding that just because in a group that knows what they're doing, when you run out of the gate like that, things will get answered. Your commander will get removed. And when you're playing mono red, you can't really trade resource like that with your opponents, right? Imagine not even three, just one or two opponents gunning you down because you're taking taking out their life total. You will not come out ahead most likely. So in this deck, what we're doing is for the most part, we are laying low accumulating resources. And once we build up the resource, we can find the chance, the opportunity to have one huge explosive turn uh with burn spells or with something else.

[2:56] And if that works, sure, maybe our opponent's half dead. We just need maybe two burn spells to kill them. But if not, then we back off again. We answer things. We control the board and look for a second chance. So, with no further ado, we are going to start with the deck. But please like and subscribe, but more importantly, please let me know if you prefer this style over the animated style of videos. All right, to start things off, we have a pile of cards for resource accumulation. Now, this is card draw, ramp, and all that. This actually 30 cards. is interesting because when I was building this deck, I had a kind of a skeleton and then I played this deck for over a year, probably more than 30, 40 games just to test things and whatever I felt like was missing, I would cut cards and exchange and upgrade.

[3:46] And I didn't really count how many of each card I have until today when I realized I have more than 30 or maybe 29 around around 30 of these resource gathering cards. And honestly, just building the deck from scratch, I would never do this. But it seems like this is what we need for the deck to function, to power the deck. Um, this is like the vegetables. Unfortunately, again, in other colors, you wouldn't need this many. You would need maybe 15 to 20, but in this case, in mono red, we kind of have to play these to to get everything to work as intended. So, starting off we have ramp and first we have of course soaring uh mindstone arcane sign.

[4:29] Nothing too special here. The glare I think this is okay. All right. Glittering stockpile is worth talking about just because uh it's the competition for three mana rock is fears. They print so many good ones. But what's nice about this is I think it fits our play style well because this allows us to store mana. And if this can stay around for a while, it can easily you can easily crack it for four to five mana to power out one of those big turns, which is nice cuz again our play style, we are laying low and then once in a while, boom, take a big turn and then lay low again and take another big turn. And this card fits that. Commander Sphere, Thrand Dynamo, one of the best mana rocks, I'd say, in mono colored, but not better than throne of Eldra.

[5:10] Throne of Eldrin is just ridiculous. Five mana now typing for four. the only the restriction of only being able to play the colored spell is a bit annoying. It can definitely come up, but I mean you play this on turn five, untapping on turn six with 10 mana, which is just ridiculous. And also the draw effect is not the best, especially considering how this uh the throne taps for four mana. So you're paying seven mana to draw two, but in a pinch I've activated this before. Yeah. So definitely can come up. Next up, navigation orb. Five mana cultivate. This is quite expensive for what it does, but again, I am huge on hitting your land drops.

[5:51] And usually, you know, by turn five, turn six, you are starting to miss land drops. So, using this basically gets you two lands, right? Cuz if you again, if you get a landing hand when you don't have a land, that's a ram spell. So, yeah, I still think it's pretty good when I played it. Next up, burnish chart. even more expensive, even clunkier, but man, just getting two lens into play. This is not something monor gets to do and it feels so good. So, it's it's still in solemn similar never feels bad to draw. I mean, it's getting kind of power crept, right? There are better cards now, but again, in mono red, we are our standards are lower definitely. And yeah, it's a perfectly serviceable card.

[6:32] Pendant of Prosperity. This card I talked about in a video. I've actually never got to cast this card cuz I just added it. Uh I've seen my opponents use it to to to great effect and on paper this card is just ridiculous. Uh so maybe you're not so familiar with this card. We'll read it. This so when you cast it, it enters the battlefield under the control of an opponent of your choice and pay two. So now the opponent can activate this ability. You cannot. They can pay two to basically explore. But when they do that, you can do the same. You can draw a card and put a land onto the battlefield. Not tapped. So even if your opponent just activates this once, you got your pretty much three mana value back.

[7:12] And sure, you can do politics, you can make deals, but because I mean, if I'm on the table, someone plays this, I would want it and I would want to activate it because if I don't, someone else takes it, I'm really far behind. Yeah. So it's the politics is huge here. But even if you don't want to do politics, you can just give it to someone with spare mana, right? someone with uh open mana that that doesn't seem like they're using, they're just going to pass it on tap. Yeah, give it to them. It's hard for anyone to resist the temptation of this free value. And also, if you see someone struggling mana screw, give it to them. So, yeah, this card I can see it being incredible. Glet of Might. So, now it comes to three mana. Now, this is definitely not necessary.

[7:55] This is like half the budget of the deck. So I I think honestly I think two power uh two metal wars is enough cuz these are super high-risisk high reward. You play them usually you won't be doing too much that turn and then your opponent will most likely try to remove them but if they don't you get one of those huge turns. So I do think two should be enough or you can play uh what's it called? Extra pet planer lens but that one is a little bit riskier. Yeah. Gallet gauntlet and cage sun. Cage Sun is six mana, but it's nice because it allows your non-basic lands to tap for red to also tap for double. So yeah, you pay more, you get more. Next up, spiteful repossession. This is not a burn spell.

[8:36] This is actually a a ram spell because if you read it, um the floor is not high because sometimes you your opponents don't have more lands than you. But when they do, we don't need that many cuz we can on the turn we play this, we don't have to drop the land. We can play this first. Now, with Sophium on the field, even if your opponents are one or two lands more than you, you're easily making four to six treasures. Now, if one or even two opponents are playing green, you are going off. Yeah, this can easily be used as a ritual almost. You're getting your mana back or you can store the mana for turns. This is uh manager. Yeah, manager. Uh yeah, the big big red.

[9:17] I think the most iconic spell in Big Red. um you are making mid game easily 10 meta net 10 meta and this can power out a huge turn. You can either finish your opponents with big X spells or you can just play a lot of things cuz in this deck cards are expensive and for us to get utility it costs just extra mana because we are relying again a lot on colorless stuff. So manager seems good. Season of the bold this card doesn't do too much but is like a bit of everything. Now the third mode I don't find it to be too useful. it can be okay but I uh because we don't have a lot of small spells that we are and also two damage becomes four is only hitting creatures is not that much so usually the typical use for this would be pay two paw here to get uh two cards for two turns for this turn and next turn and at the same time getting three top treasure tokens for five mana I think it's reasonable value yeah because you're getting cards and mana to use the cards for next turn next Theatic Compass.

[10:20] Again, I talked about this. This card is, I think, super underrated just because, again, if you're ramping and missing land drops, what's the point? You I think it's better for you to just tap three mana to basically it's like a Dark Soul Inca, right? Every three mana you pay, you can get a land and play it. And more importantly, late game or mid game actually, this can flip into a maze of if a better maze of. So for two mana you basically it's like repenting growth but you get a really really good land. So I think this card is definitely worth playing in especially mono color decks green. Next up command. This is one of the best resource accumulation cards here because this is this can be done at instant speed and the other modes are flexible.

[11:08] Right? Because for a lot of the other cards, you're making treasures, but you're doing doing it on your turn and you're spending mana, so your shields are down. But with this, it basically doubles your mana, right? Well, minus two. And then you can say create 10 Aldrazi sound tokens and untap with 18 mana. But at the same time, you're also keeping your options open, right? If you have to kill something, you can remove exotic creature or graveyard hate. But if none of that comes up, we can just dig for a big spell, right? So, we are making a bunch of chump blockers. We're making a bunch of uh Aldrazi spawn that can crack for mana. And we're also digging for a big burst spell to use with that mana. So, this is honestly one of the best new cards for this deck.

[11:52] Jessica's Will. Not much to say about this. Just a ridiculous magic card. Uh we have I think five game changers in here. So, we are bracketed four, but I believe two of them are pretty cutable or not necessary in this deck. This one is though. This one is amazing. Big score. And because so now we're going into card filtering because our deck we have lots of small stuff that we don't want late game and lots of large huge spells that we don't want early game. So being able to filter the cards is nice. Like for example, early game you draw a a huge burn spell, you probably want to discard it. At the same time, late game if you draw a arcane signant, you can discard that and draw two cards.

[12:34] And also storing two mana for you is super relevant. Uh yeah, unexpected windfall. Same card. I'm not playing the instant uh the sorcery speed once only the instance because uh in this deck we are operating we're trying our best to operate at instant speed to be able to respond to things. So, keeping your options open, you know, you respond if you have to. If you don't, then you do a windfall, I think, is the best best way approach. Uh, risk factor. Yeah, risk factor. It's a cool card. I mean, it's Punisher. A lot of people don't like it, but when your opponents see you're playing a burn deck, they usually probably wouldn't want to take eight damage, especially not another eight from the jump start.

[13:19] So chances are you you get to draw at least three cards from casting it and jump starting it which is decent and you also just burned you know eight damage. Also there are times where you don't want them to let you draw. You want to burn for that eight. So both sides can be useful and overall I think the value is decent and especially considering that you can discard it right to Sophia or other discard effects and it can still be relevant in the graveyard. So I think overall this card is fairly fairly good in this deck. Next up sandstone Oracle to refill our hand. This is the price we have to pay in monor red. This is actually pretty good because early game again we are dropping lots of mana rocks. We are discarding to sophium. So to refill our hand is nice. Mid game usually some someone is at you know six cards.

[14:02] Maybe someone is at 12. Sometimes you hit the jackpot but usually this card can help you refill pretty well. And sure the cost seems expensive but it's actually not so bad in this deck especially if you look at the next card. Yeah, this is for revealing our hand and it's a decent threat and kind of a control piece. Even though this Kaik draws more hate than it deserves. I mean, I'm I'm not countering anything that's not hurting me, right? But usually your opponents are like, "Oh, Ka'ala is there. He's going to counter everything. We have to kill." Uh, you don't you don't just don't target my stuff. And yeah, again, this is 10 mana, but with the kind of ramp and acceleration we have, we can get this down pretty much turn six, turn seven, the latest, and that's usually when you need to refill.

[14:49] So, yeah, great card. Cross it up to seven. Next up, yes, the one ring, of course. Now, the one ring, I I'll be honest with you. I think the one ring commander is a better format with the one ring band just because it's so ridiculous. You can take any deck pretty much take out a card from the 99 and put this in and the deck is arguably better. Now, I try not to play the one ring in any deck that doesn't have player synergy with it. But in uh Sophium, I think it makes a lot of sense just because you can play it and then you can burn the table. Meanwhile, you are untouched. And at the same time, we do need the card draw to be able to keep up with those blue and green decks.

[15:32] Yeah. So they will help us bridge the gap a little bit. Next up, the wheels, misfortune, fortune, and rune horn. Okay. So when I was saying earlier how the gauntlet of might was like half the budget, wheel of fortune is another I'd say 20%. So if you cut wheel and gauntlet, this deck is actually fairly budget friendly, I'd say. And wheel is honestly not necessary. It's a great card, but I I think honestly rune horn Hkite is better. And we're playing wheels once again because we are discarding and we are dumping our hand fast. Usually I don't play wheels because they're risky. They're refilling your opponents. But in this case, it makes a lot of sense. A real horn is the best one because you can discard it and use it later.

[16:15] And also being instant speed is huge because when you wheel, you always want to be the first person to use those cards, right? So even though it's six mana, I think it's more than worth it. Yeah. Wheels. And that's all for our what's it called? Resource accumulation cards. Yes. And again, it's about 29 to 30 of them. This is the vegetable. We have to eat it. But now we can make time for some fun stuff. So now it's time for the fun part. And here is the core of the deck. That is our game plan. the cards that help us advance our plan, including removals that allow us to control the game and also uh burn stuffs, finishers, too.

[17:03] So, let's start off with Guff Reise History. Now, this one is like Chaos Warp, which I have, but Guff Rice History is, I think, a bit underrated. Sure, it cannot deal with enchantments, but at the same time, you can do one permanent per opponent, and you can even do some something from your own board, right? Because we have a lot of treasures, we can just tuck a treasure and hope to hit something big. Or, you know, if your one ring becomes too big and taking you're taking too much damage, you can tuck the one ring. So, I think this is a premium removal in red. And of course, we have chaos warp. Blasphemous act. Pretty pretty typical, but in this deck actually, blasphemous act can be used to win games when comboed with some of the cards we'll go over later.

[17:46] And next up, chain reaction. I really don't want to play this card because it's I mean it's poor mana. It's not even cheap and it's inconsistent. Sometimes you don't kill what you need to kill. But unfortunately in red for I think they just printed blasphemous act and then forgot about red. So they didn't really upgrade the removal of the board wipes. So we still have to play this until wizards remembers us again I guess. Next up is starstorm. Starstorm is pretty much the best removal next to blast I'd say. And because mostly because of the instant speed and also when you have soulium on the board, you don't have to pay too much mana into X. Yeah. And cycling is nice too. So just overall a really really efficient piece that uh also quite flexible.

[18:32] Spiteful mandatory. This is like uh the red what's it called? Meat hook massacre. Yes, exactly like that. because when it enters, you can deal X damage to each creature and then for each creature that dies, you get a treasure. It's a lot of power. Except this is not like me hook because it only triggers once a turn. It's actually a lot worse. But just getting the one treasure from cast and then once in a while the treasure there, a treasure here. It's not bad. So again, decent removal and all this damage based stuff is doubled by recommener. Why not? Next up, Reckless Endeavor. This card is ridiculous. Yeah, I rolled two d20s.

[19:13] I mean, sometimes, I mean, last time I played, I remember I rolled a one and a three, but even then, with the help of our commander, we still wiped the board and got one treasure. And once in a while, you just get hit the jackpot cuz the the board wipe side choosing uh the number you choose for board wipe doesn't have to high. It doesn't have to be high when you have sulfium. It can just be three or four and then you can maximize the treasure output which can be super useful for our big turns. Oblivion stone uh the old staple from 15 years ago even maybe even older. Uh but still we have to play it. I know we have a lot of artifacts. We have a lot of permanence too but unfortunately we just can't answer some of the permanent based decks like for example imagine super friends.

[19:56] Imagine sagas you just cannot deal with them. So, we need a panic button and that's what Obliv Stone is. I don't want to use it, but when I have to, I will. And after that is Ugan. Now, this is just a I think one of the best board wipes in decks that are I think with lots of artifacts, right? And especially if we don't have a lot of permanence any color. Yeah, Ugan just wipes. It's almost like a one-sided board wipe most of the time. It kills our commander, but everything else on our board pretty much stays for the most part. And yeah, in mono red, you do need something like this. Next up, we are starting to not just burn creatures, but also players.

[20:38] Electro dominance is the first one. It's a bit expensive, not super efficient, but what's nice is the flexibility. It's instant. It can target place walkers, creatures, players, and also you can use this to drop something. It allows you to cast a spell with mana value X or less. So imagine electro dominance something for five and then dropping a gauntlet of power at the end of turn and then you untap with double mana and you can win from there. So it's not super efficient but it's got some play and some tricks that you can do. A rolling earthquake. This is the only earthquake I play. I don't play actual earthquake cuz I want to be able to kill fires. Now if someone pulls out a portal 3 kingdom deck against me, I will cry. But generally, this is also a decent win condition and a perfectly serviceable board weapon.

[21:24] The roller crusher ride. Now, Delirium happens in our deck, but not super quickly. So, I'm evaluating this card just based on the second ability. When it enters, it deals X damage to each of up to three target creatures. That's already a pretty good removal ability, right? Getting three targets. Unfortunately, you cannot burn but yeah, just being able to remove things and usually nobody would target it, right? Because it's not on, but when it's online, when you combine this with your uh commander with Sophium, we're dealing four times damage. So, yeah, it's a pretty nice removal with a high ceiling. I like that.

[22:05] Delayed blast fireball. It's got four tail and uh you can pay six to deal five damage to each opponent and each creature they control. And with our commander, it is 10 damage. In a pinch, you can also use the three mana version, which is two damage times two, four with our commander. Uh but unfortunately, we only have one for tile card in this deck, so our opponents know what it is, but it is pretty efficient at what it does. And also, we do have a ton of exile based synergy. Like we can exile cards from the top, we can cast from exile. So yeah, I think this card is quite good all things considered. Miku spark, which is Chandra's ignition. When you target that onto our commander, it is 10 damage to everything and each opponent, right?

[22:48] Just a really efficient explosive damaging spell and board wipe. It's a bit risky because your opponents can target our commander in response with removal, but again, we have an indestructible, so it's less risky this way. Molten Disaster. This is probably my favorite card in this deck just because it completely changes how the game works cuz usually I I'm sure you've all seen those late game players with probably Simic decks where they can pass the turn holding up 12 mana with three counter spells and two removals and they feel invincible and this is the card you get them with split second and there's nothing they can do unless there's a there's a morph for something but yeah, there's pretty much nothing your opponents can do once you put this on the stack.

[23:33] So this is something we need in the late game just to get get around counter spells, get around all the responses and yeah finish the game. Comet storms nice instant speed. Usually this itself won't be killing your opponents but what's nice is you can end a turn comet storm for say 14 to 16 damage and then untap to do the killing that you can surprise kill and imagine opponents sitting at 30 life feeling pretty safe. Yeah, you can get them with this Gas Emilating Inferno. This one is not as good. Still decent just because of how efficient it is. Three targets, right? When you when you're doubled in the mid game to late game, you can easily deal 10 to 20 damage to each opponent and that can kill people and also in a pinch as a removal.

[24:19] Unfortunately, you do need your commander to turn this on. So, this might be one of the weaker burn spells, but for now, it's still serviceable. Krakco with power on the other hand is probably one of the strongest burn spells here. Yeah, the way it scales is this is a card this is a burn spell designed for commander. Yeah, cuz you have to do the math. But uh maybe I should have done it earlier, but the math works out as if you pay say 11 mana, it is 15 damage to each opponent. If you pay is it 14? Yeah, 14 mana, it is 20 damage to each opponent. And with her commander, all that is doubled. you can easily finish the game with just this one card. Now, this next card here is a bit of a curveball.

[24:59] Sometimes it will do nothing, but when it's good, it's really, really good. You can finish the game. For example, if you're casting, so I say an earthquake for five, and then you target, for example, sophium with this. And what happens is sophium will take 10 damage from earthquake and arc bond will double that again, which is 20 damage to everything. Every player, well, not you because it's half for you, but it's double for your opponents. So, with that play, you just 10 plus 20 damage to each opponent and each creature on the board. Yeah. So, super explosive and can get people out of nowhere. Just three mana. Pyrohemia. This is one of the best uh I say best enchantments in the deck. The best I say stacks pieces almost cuz with this and sofium on the board, no one is keeping creatures, right?

[25:45] They cannot do anything because sophium is indestructible. So it's Parhemia won't die and until they answer one of these two permanent their life will keep going down and they will not be able to stick any creature anything on the board. Parromia man barbar is the only I'd say uh stacksish enchantment that I play that is only only for the damage just because it does so much damage. It's Yeah. I mean, if your opponent is ramping each turn, they're probably taking 10 to 20 damage just to cast their things, and they cannot afford to do that. So, with this on the board, your opponent really, their clock is ticking for them, and they have to answer this or sophium or watch their life go down because it is two damage per land when doubled.

[26:33] Now, repercussion. This is almost like a combo piece. And this is what works with our board wipes. Usually when I play this and a boardweight, the game is finished because the damage is doubled from the boardweight to the creature and then when it goes through repercussion and it's directed to the to the controllers, it's doubled again. And once again, this is only for your opponents because it doesn't doesn't happen for us. So yeah, this is one of the bigger win conditions. And also Mystics Mastery, we are not a spelling deck, but we have a lot of spells. And the base mode of just four mana to recast a spell from graveyard is already good. But late game, if you can overload it, if you have a full graveyard and overload it, the game is pretty much over.

[27:17] You get so much value. You get so much mana that Yeah. So, I think Misix's Masquery is a solid card even though it doesn't like on the on paper, it doesn't have too much synergy with what we're doing here. And next up, Dictate of the Twin Gods. I don't like symmetrical effects just because in mono red we don't have much life gain and we can die pretty quickly and this doubling damage to everyone is risky but the flash is what changes things cuz end of turn you flash and untap you have a decent chance of just finish the game right there. Uh because you have sulfium plus this that's four times damage any burn spell do. So yeah dictative twing gods but do not play this.

[27:59] So yeah, dictated twin goss. Don't just drop it. Only drop it when you're ready to finish the game. Torough god of fury. This is quite similar to repercussion from earlier. It is worse, but it's a it's a decent body. And um yeah, and any damage any excess damage is dealt to your opponents. Once again, we we do that double double which can turn any board weapon into a lot of damage. And lastly, fiery emancipation. This is the backup for our commander if it dies too much. Yeah, it's six mana expensive. If you drop it, you probably have a turn where you have to wait and hopefully your opponents don't blow this up. But if they don't, again, any burn spell will probably finish the game.

[28:42] So, this is the package of burn control and all that. And this is how we win the Next up, we have some miscellaneous utility. All right, next up we have some miscellaneous utility. Just uh let's say protection for our commander. Soot boost, lightning grease. Can you see? Yep. And deflection swap of course. Bolt band almost as good as deflecting swat. And then Tibol's trickery. Yeah, you can really get people with it. The red counter spell. Next up, Malcanori. I think this card is I mean there's a lot of debate around this card but in this deck I think it's excellent.

[29:24] The reasoning is that when you are when you're playing at a disadvantage when it comes to, you know, your value engines and your card draw and stuff, how you how you bridge that gap is through better decision- making. And Valkconori allows us to make better decisions because we have time, right? We don't play the cards until we absolutely have to, which is huge in multiplayer. So, I think this is definitely worthy of a spot in this deck. And lastly, we have Underworld Breach. Now, this is one of the game changers that I don't think is necessary. So, on paper, it's amazing, but when I played it, it's been a decent value piece. It's like a, you know, it's like a regrowth, but it's never a game ending just because of, you know, exotic three cards from our grave.

[30:08] And also, our spells are not cheap. So, it's I usually use it as a regrowth. But sometimes if you have something like, for example, Jessica's will or manager in your graveyard, this can definitely go off. So yeah, we're I'm still testing this card, but I do think it's not again, if you care about game changers, this is not necessary in the deck. And finally, we're on to lands. And I believe we have 38 lens in this deck and a lot a lot of non-basics because if you're playing against some of the more disadvantaged colors like mono red, mono white, you have to take every piece of advantage you can get. Every little bit, every inch, you have to just use it.

[30:51] You have to maximize it. And nothing does that better than some of these non-basic lands. Now, Velica Awakening is just amazing. I think this goes into pretty much every red deck, but here is even better because we can uh do the filtering. Skull smashing is a burn stone. Why not pinnacle monk? Now, five mana is super expensive. I don't usually use the front sight that much, but with these MDFCs, the ones from modern horizons, and also same with shatter skull, actually, you can pay three light for it to enter untapped. This makes it extremely close to a mountain. It's almost the difference is negligible.

[31:31] So the opportunity cost is low and the floor is high. So I think there's no reason to not play these cards. Mo this deck, this card is super expensive when it comes to tempo and life loss. I mean interest tapped colorless and cost two life per tap. But the payoff I think is worth it. Late game. If you're tapping out for a huge burst spell and it gets countered, your game is pretty much over cuz your opponent see what you can do and your shields are down. So you don't want your stuff countered, BU is the way. War Room, draw cards. We need all the card draw we can. So War Rune is Yeah, solid choice. You only lose one life because our commander is mono red.

[32:12] It seems this card seems tailor made for monocolor decks. This one is what's it called? Spine rocknull. Yeah, Spyro rock. Now, what this says is it enters tapped, hide away four. So, hide away means you can look at the top four cards and put and exile one of them under this. And when an opponent takes seven or more damage in a turn, you can pay one red and tap this to cast the card hit away for free. And opponents taking seven damage is pretty common in our deck. And also, it works when your opponents attack each other. So, it's just a free value, free spell that you can drop. Imagine dropping a mana doubler or something like a chandra ignition from this is huge.

[32:57] Winding canyons once again flash instant speed is excellent and our commander is better protected if you can flash it in, right? Flash our commander in and then untap for a big burn spell. So, we are protecting from sorcery speed removals and we have indestructible. This makes it pretty safe. like a commander will probably stick if you do that combination inventor spare. I'm going to be honest, this is used for tutoring for the one ring basically. But in a pinch, you can also get oblivion stone or something like a mana doubler. Yeah, just some incremental value. We have tempo of the false god. Again, this card is a bit controversial, but in our decks, we are patient.

[33:39] We have time and we have lots of ways to make sure we hit our land drops. So, chances are we're not going to be stuck with this and not be able to use the mana ability. And yeah, land adding two mana is yeah, it's good. It's excellent. So, crucible of defiance. Now, this doesn't synergize much with our deck. The only use I guess because when we get pressured, we don't play a lot of creatures, we get pressured, we can use this to chop block. And also if our opponents are playing say a flesh fake marauder, they're edicting us. We can in a pinch discard this to have some plotters. It also enters on top. So just yeah, it's basically a a mountain myriad landscape ramp.

[34:24] Again, our deck is not fast. We can afford to take take some time to ramp to have lens entertainment. This card is amazing because what you can it's a graveyard hit it's a scavenger's ground which we I think we all thought how but at the same time it you can pay three mana well scavenge exile the graveyards but also you get to return a historic card from your graveyard. Now this includes our commander Luggan any of the artifacts. I mean if the one ring gets blown up yay we get it back. Yeah this card is a ridiculous ridiculous value. strip line just because lands are getting better and better nowadays.

[35:04] People with their gay cradles and kebab coffers and mabbys. Yeah, we got to blow them up. Drowning her temple. This is because we discard, right? If we discard something, we want to discard this to our commander's ability and we can pay three then to rep. So, it's got great synergy with what we're doing. Scavenger grounds, like I said earlier, graveyard hate is necessary. We need them in every deck. And uh yeah, ideally we want them in lands. Command beacon. If our commander gets too expensive, we do need to use this to bring him back. Junk town. Yeah, this is for when we are flooded. We get all the ramp but no gas. We can sacrifice this pay.

[35:45] It's expensive, but turn do this and we can get we can all three cards from the top of our deck. And this can definitely bring us back into the game if we are flooded. Mines of Moria. We can pay four mana and exile three cards to create two treasure tokens. This fits perfectly into our strategy. Build, build, and boom. Is that it? That's it. Now, basics. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 basics. It's a bit high, but because we have all the mana doublers and all that, so basic count is kind of relevant. And that's all. That is the entire deck. So, yeah, there you have it. This is the Sophium deck and this is my best attempt at building a monor red deck, monor red burn deck that can keep up with the most powerful noncd builds.

[36:35] Can it? We will find out. Actually, we will find out on this channel. We'll do some I have something pretty interesting planned. But yeah, the game plan is fairly clear, straightforward. Do not overcommit. Do not try not to try to avoid conflict if possible. Build and catch people by Yeah, thank you for watching and again, please subscribe and like and let me know if this style video is something you like to see or do you prefer me to just uh because there's some glare on the sleeves and there's again a pretty different setting than the usual deck tech videos, but I like it just because it's like I feel like I'm playing, you know, I'm at the LGS chatting with a friend and it has a different vibe.

[37:21] Let me know. See you.
