# This Dumb 50$ Deck is DESTROYING My Group | Commander-Centric Deck Tech
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/u7pUcOv5DLw
date: 2026-03-27 | views: 133,578 | likes: 3,864 | comments: 328 | length: 8:02 | words: 1,640 | wpm: 209.4
tags: Wick, Mtg, EDH, Commander, Magic the Gathering, Budget

[0:00] My group is being destroyed by this $50 deck and it's so stupid. Hello everyone. This is Jin with next level commander and today I present to you a wick deck designed by my friend Ty Lit. No, not the one beefing with Kung Fu Panda, but a even bigger douche because his $50 deck is leaving my professionally built full budget decks in the dust. And again, it's so dumb, but it's a blast to play and the real cost is actually closer to zero than 50 cuz most of the cards here are just draft chaff he's been picking up and cards he already owns. And I would never say this to his face, but it's actually really freaking clever. It happens to be another perfect example of the commander centric philosophy where the entire deck is built around this one legendary creature and leans on it for resource accumulation, answering opponents threats, finishing the game, or ideally all the above.

[0:48] This can lead to really interesting deck building challenges and every deck having a unique play style determined by the commander. In our case, we have Wick, the World Mind. And you can see Wick covers a pretty solid chunk of what wins games. The first line here is a trap. Okay, we still do need it, but in this deck we have zero rats. I mean, I'm not saying it's wrong to play rats tribal, but it's just it's a sweet deck, but I don't think Wick is close to being the best legend for that. What Wick is best for is throwing beefed up snails at opponents over and over until they're dead. And that's what we're doing here. The first thing you do when brainstorming any commander centric deck is looking at its weaknesses. Wick can kill opponents and draw a ridiculous amount of cards and generally when we have draw power, there's just one bottleneck, mana.

[1:33] So, we're starting with all the ramp we can find for under $2. Not too sure about the signets here. I mean, why is Rakdos $3? This can be any other two mana rock really, but aside from this worth mentioning is the cursed mirror. This one is absolutely worth spending the big money's on. It's a mana rock that will often come with a sweet ETB or attack trigger. And also it's great for resetting the snail token after we sacrifice it. Having this come in as a copy of Wick will immediately get us a 2/2 snail at the cost of the artifact of course. Bender's water skin is a brilliant card in any deck that wants to protect its commander. What would normally be turn six Wick plus protection becomes turn four. And finally, a hidden gem in Fer Dock Court.

[2:14] Becoming a 4/4 snail in a pinch isn't amazing, but can definitely dig us out of some snail-less situations. Now with the boring stuff out of the way, it's big snail time. All these pump spells that got wheeled to you in those random drafts are given another chance to shine. My favorite ones are these that give plus three for one mana and the best among them is wild right. I mean, you can usually cast this and harmonize it immediately for just two mana giving plus six. Just watch out for the sorcery speed timing which means you will have to do your entire signing dance during your turn. Aside from the straight pump, we also sprinkle in a few cards like behind the mask to slightly alleviate our over dependence on red mana. Just keep in mind that these effects don't stack with each other and avoid the ones that can change the creature type.

[2:58] Except our Lorehold All-Star, Wings of Velis Vel, which can turn any creature, even our commander, into a snail for that one last kamikaze mission. Water Wings is also a personal favorite doubling as a pump spell or a protection spell. And what's nice about a deck like this is that you don't need to exact cards. As long as you understand the reasoning behind our choices, there are probably tons of alternatives with similar effects. Aside from the pump spells, we have a few equipments. They're often less efficient, but can be recurring value for our mid game and onwards. These ones that attach upon entering are pretty similar to the pump spells, except we are trading one power for reusability. Bespoke Battle-Garb is nice because we can deploy it before Wick and it will automatically attach once we have Wick come in along with his favorite snail of the week.

[3:43] And the same will happen every time we blink or reuse Wick. Well, that's convenient. Cranial plating is another really clever inclusion. It may not be the most efficient early game, but it can easily pump for five to 10 power as we deploy our mana rocks and other equipments. Improvised Arsenal has a similar effect with a bonus mana sinking ability that we probably won't get to use much, but when we do, it's going to be super sweet. And finally, Ruin Stalker's Sight helping anyone identify as a snail when there's benefit on the line. So, now we have the rocks to power out some big snails which we will chuck at opponents and draw a bunch. As long as we can do that reliably, we have a game plan. So, it's time to work on the reliably part. Protection spells are great.

[4:23] Unfortunately, this is where the card's quality suffers a bit from the budget restriction. The best counter spell here is Negate, but the hexproof cards here can do a decent job. My favorite though are these blink spells. They serve double duty as protection on top of resetting the snail token once it's used. And for that specific purpose, we also have Crystal Shard. And Chameleon is the only Spark Double variant I can afford to include while keeping that clickbaity title accurate. And now for some spicy single utility cards. Okay, Disciple of Bolas is just a backup Wick, but we are spending a whopping three American dollars on this black instant, Tainted Strike. Yes, it's plus one in a pinch if you target the snail, but when it's the right time to target Wick, you will know and it's going to be glorious.

[5:05] And that isn't even our biggest bank breaker. Here we have at seven freaking dollars, over 15% of our entire budget, we have Giggling Skittershank. This is like the single best card released for me in the past 10 years probably. If I have to pick one card to never use again, I'd rather lose the One Ring than this. I mean, just play it in any pump spell deck in the mid game and late game, it will just it will just end. The game will finish. Just like that. And a little bit about our land base. This deck is extremely color intensive. I mean, the Uber activation and the one mana pump spells and protection spells. There will be times when you straight up find no use for colorless mana. So, luckily in 2026, we have access to top quality fixing on a budget.

[5:46] I mean, these all used to be five to 10 dollars a pop and I'm genuinely surprised at the price of some of these. I'm still stuck in the times when budget players had to resort to them evolving wilds and guild gates. So, pretty much everything is dedicated to fixing here with a few MDFCs that fit what we want to do and there you have it, Wick's snail deck. The play pattern can be described as bring dead. Basically, yeah. It That's why it's so frustrating to lose to. I mean, my idiot friend just goes, "Look, I have snail a pump pump attack take 12 sacrifice it you take 12 more. What do I do with 15 cards in my hand?" Yeah, that's pretty much it. And now, this is a great budget deck because again, the core is just draft chaff, but if we want to spoil Wick, you know, just put in some money, there is definitely room for improvement.

[6:33] Every commander centric deck loves free protection spells and counter spells. This will allow us to proceed with our game plan one or even two turns early sometimes, which for a deck that snowballs like this one does can be an an enormous difference. Wick getting countered can be devastating, so a Counter of Souls can help patch this one weakness that can ruin us. I mean, if there's room for game changers, I'm sure a Demonic Tutor or a Jeska's Will wouldn't hurt, but our deck really don't benefit from them as much as many others do. Also, something like Mutavault can give us a snail in a pinch. While the deck slots are tight, these MDFCs can definitely shine and it's easy to just replace a basic land. But again, this isn't a deck that needs a lot of budget to function and even the $50 version can easily hold its own on bracket three tables.

[7:19] So, please let me know what you think. Is there anything I'm missing from this deck list? I know that I haven't looked too much into rats. I don't think there any rats that synergize with what we're doing too well, but there might be some. I've seen arguments for Torian Mauler, but with our current list, I don't think it's necessary, but it's also I think it's also probably decent, so you can try Anything else? Yeah, I think that's it. If you're interested in more decks like this one, please subscribe for more and I will see you around. See you.
