# Let's Build a Final Fantasy Commander from Scratch WITHOUT Using EDHREC
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/V7kbNTNInDc
date: 2025-06-03 | views: 380 | likes: 10 | comments: 14 | length: 1:28:03 | words: 11,862 | wpm: 135.2
tags: #Commander #EDH #MagicTheGathering #FinalFantasy #DeckTech #CustomBuild #MTG

[0:00] Hello everyone, how are you? Welcome to Next Level Commander. This is Jyn and today we are going to try something different. We are going to build together a new Final Fantasy Legend. Oh, but before we begin, one second cuz I have to quickly announce the winner of the previous giveaway from my last video. 15 cards, 15 years, something like that. I don't remember. I didn't really promote or advertise this. I just hit it at the end of the video and this individual subscribed and made a comment and yeah, they won. The winner is Cal Delet. Cal Delet, thank you. I will message you privately. And for the rest of you, please like and subscribe for future videos and giveaways. But more importantly, if you have an any opinion, any thoughts about the content, leave a comment because a lot of this stuff is experimental.

[0:46] Like today, the deck building, I never done this before. I don't see similar videos on YouTube, so I wanted to try it. But if it's a video that you like or dislike or and what you look forward to in the future, let me know because as a smaller YouTuber, this it can get straight to me and can definitely change the direction I take in the future. But anyways, moving on. As you can see, we have Gilgamesh. Now, this is not not the most popular commander out of the gate, but I think it definitely has potential. And I chose this guy from the new set because I mean it's not super complicated like a lot of the new I think overdesigned commanders or the top down commanders but uh it's fairly straightforward right focused with equipments but it's also not the easiest in terms of difficulty.

[1:30] I would say this is like medium partly because the expensive cost and again you're in model red so your your options are kind of limited. So yeah, a commander with a fairly straightforward line of thinking, but with some hoops we have to jump through. It's a I think a great deck for us to try for our first uh build together. And we're not going to cut or take any pauses. We're going to try to do this one take. I don't know if it's possible, but we'll try. And this will take maybe around I'm guessing 90 minutes to two hours. Hopefully shorter. We we'll make it try to make it quick. Yeah. Um, and also we're not going to be using any EDHR track related tools.

[2:11] I'm not saying EDHRE is bad, but it's actually I mean it's actually excellent, especially if you don't have too much time or interest to do the digging and you're totally fine using EDH to start and you and then you can play with the deck and later tune and optimize it as you play. But not using it, I think, at least in the beginning, allows us to dig deeper and to find cards that we ourselves we want to play and giving us more room for customization, especially for an equipment deck where there's like, you know, maybe a few hundred equipments. We can pick and choose our favorites. You know, the difference won't be like the difference between the staple equipment, quote unquote, versus what you choose. There will be a difference, but it probably won't be massive, right? You can play with your own choices and see if it's actually better or see if you like it more, right?

[2:56] And I also believe that going through a process like this once in a while does help a lot with your deck building, it makes a huge difference and it because it prompts us to really think about every card choice and think about the synergies, the interactions rather than just mindlessly adding the most popular options. And it's a cumulative process that can help us in the future if you plan to, you know, keep playing commander for a while. And at first you may start slow, but the payoff is worth it in the in my opinion. So no further ado, let's take a look at our commander Gilgamesh. So six mana, 66, pretty expensive for a commander. When he enters or attacks, look at the top six cards of your library. You may put any number of equipments among them onto the battlefield.

[3:39] The rest from the bottom you can, and important here, you can when you put one or more equipments onto the battlefield this way, you can equip one of them, attach one of them to a samurai you control. I believe attaching to a samurai here is a bit bit of a I say red hearing because you probably won't be playing samurai tribal like when if you can you're putting it onto your commander and you're only getting one equip per turn on average so you're not going to waste it on another creature unless unless later I we'll do a quick samurai search but I doubt we're going to find something that's very good in this deck maybe one or two cards from the new set that I haven't looked at but for now for now we are going to yeah go with our whoops what did I do no not Wait, not a good start.

[4:23] Okay, there you go. And then we're going to set it as our commander. There you go. How do you I Okay, we have a commander. And usually I recommend for a deck like this, the first thing you do is you go through the core of the deck, right? You have a core that you pretty much must have in the deck. And then you find other cards that may have synergy with this core. And the core of this deck is fairly obvious. It's equipments and more importantly large equipments because we're cheating the casting cost and sometimes the equip cost. So we are using scryfall.

[5:03] I'm actually not that good at using scryfall. I use I don't know a lot of the syntax, but for me basic search usually does fine as long as my internet works. There you go. All right. Red. We want to search red commander identities because a lot of the equipments are colorless. Uh equip wait really. There you go. And we want the CMC. Let's try mana value higher four. Higher than four. Right. Well, there's only 20 of Really? Did I mess up my search?

[5:44] I I would expect there to be more than 20. I guess our color is restrictive, but okay, let's take a look. I guess there are only 20. Yeah, off the top of my head, I can't think of anything that's not in here. So, let's go. First of all, a tier and priv priv. Yeah, my apologies. Equip creature. Get have space power and toughness. Xaxx will access your total. Yeah. Yeah, it's huge. Did I? Oh, I hate this. No. What did I do? Okay. Automatic. Yeah. I mean, this is huge. Your commander will be one shot.

[6:25] So, I'm pretty sure you play it. Argentum armor plus 6 plus 6 destroy target permanent six and six to equip. I don't think this one makes it to be honest. Just because destroying any destroying one thing is not not that good anymore, is it? And and then if you don't cheat it in, you're going to pay a lot. I think we'll put this on the maybe board, but I doubt we're going to actually use it. Batter skull. Batter skull is interesting because we do want other creatures and the living weapon because we only get to equip one one creature or one equipment at a time, right? So the other equipments that get dropped, we want them to do something and living weapon is one way for them to do that.

[7:05] And also lifelink is very important. So I think we try it. I think we try it. We might have to cut it cuz we only have maybe 20 I'm guessing 20 to 25 slots for equipments. So we're not going to play Yeah, we're not going to play all of them. And this might get cut. Next one. Dissection tool manifest dread. So, this one is actually kind of similar to B skull except it's only plus two and death touch. Death touch is not super relevant. We do want lifelink because in this deck, I mean, chances are you're not playing a lot of other creatures and your commander is the one thing you're doing. So, if your opponents attack you, you don't have much defense and you need to race them with lifelink.

[7:46] But this one, I just don't think that's enough. Death touch is not relevant unless you have trample. And we won't have too much trample. I think I think our evasion will come from some a little bit of trample, a little bit of uh unblockable and some protection from colors. So, we will see this one. Flying and haste plus two. Haste is a huge one cuz it lets us, you know, cast recommener flip this and get another trigger immediately. So, I'm pretty sure this goes in. I can't think of too many premium haste enablers that are better than this. I mean, also it's like a nice living weapon. It's just a 44 dragon on its own, right? What did I Did I Okay.

[8:27] Okay. Okay. Okay. We're good. Really should have practiced this first, but then we lose the authenticity, right? This is actually no practice. One take. Ember cleave. Absolutely. This is so iconic and so good. Trample double strike plus one. Yeah, just everything we want except for maybe haste is missing. Excalibur. This is the kind of stuff we want. Huge mana cost, huge pump. Yeah, we want to get it done fast because we're not going to we're not going to win the long game, I don't think. Double strike, extra com. Oh, I didn't This is so good. I did not see this one in the spoilers, but yeah.

[9:08] Another extra Absolutely. Kra complete. Yeah, I mean batter skull is iffy because it's just a four for life thing, but this one is this is one heck of a creature even if we don't get to equip it. So, pretty sure we're including this. I mean, also, why are we playing equipment decks? We want to play this stuff, right? This is the reason we're building equipment deck. Cascade. No man, death touch one. None of these abilities are super relevant. I mean, it's super cool and epic. If you like this card, play it. But just doesn't do that much.

[9:51] And again, if you like the card, play it. There's no there's no harm in playing like say if this replaces, let's say, Battle Skull or or Excalibur. You will feel a difference, but it won't be so huge that the joy of playing your favorite card won't won't So, all right. No. Uh, probably not. Yeah, we just want lifelink. And we're Nope. We're winning through commander damage, so we don't this. Makes a dragon for six mana. Such a cool card, but I think it's the cost is just way too high.

[10:33] And nowadays, all these can be probably reduced by two, maybe. Yeah. Ro Slayer Ultimate Weapon. What is this? Whenever your hook attacks, destroy. Oh, this is just a worse worst. What's it called? Our gentle armor. Yeah, this must be from the starter decks, right? Guess it's just not that good. All right, that's all of our big equipments. How many do we have? We have eight. Eight is not bad. And of course, we'll need some smaller equipments. So, I'm guessing we're looking through all of them. Yeah, let's see how many they are. If they're over a few hundred, maybe not. But we'll see. So less 380.

[11:21] Okay, this might take a little bit of time, but but this is again the core of our deck. So we want to make sure we play our favorite cards. So baseball bat, first strike, Dalek, no artifact control. Look at the top six cards. So, we don't really want the equipments in our hands. It's not super helpful. We'd rather draw a card than have this ability. And this is pumping for, you know, usually three or four. So, not amazing. Let's see. Nope. Nope. And the real don't really need the tokens and don't really need the counters Nope.

[12:08] Nope. Draw two cards just pirate. No assault suit. Oh, this doesn't gold is the problem. So your opponents don't even have to attack. If this golded, this will be amazing. Does give haste. Ah, it's tempting. But yeah, your opponents are likely not going to attack just because of how aggressive you are, right? You are possibly the arch enemy at least for the first five or six turns maybe. Avorous amulet. Nope. Nope. Nope. Bass color. Yeah, we're not going to play equipment just for the lifelink.

[12:48] Doesn't do enough. Activated ability. We don't have any activated. Haste is nice, but we won't be using this part. Uh, Bilbo's ring. Hex proof can be blocked. See, this is nice because imagine you're alpha striking an opponent. You're trying to alpha strike them and they are able to block, but then you flip this. Now, they have no chance to respond. Like, they cannot point a removal at your commander in response to this cuz the moment they see this, your ability is resolving and it will come down and equip. And now you have unblockable. And it's possible that your opponent is just dead.

[13:28] So, this is But, oh, this is tempting. Draw a card. equip four, but only on your turn. I got hex move. Maybe board. Maybe board. Yeah, because the situation I described is a little bit narrow. It's a little bit narrow. It's amazing if it happens, but uh it's too slow. We don't need the This is good because it's only five, right? Two plus three, but it can give plus 6 plus 6 or maybe more. So definitely Marriott. No, like Oh, wait, wait, no. Yes, we do want Marriott.

[14:10] Yeah, cuz sure the copies died, but but you get say three opponents, you get four more triggers. Yeah. Yeah, we want Marriott. Almost skipped it because I I was thinking thinking legend rule, but No, sorry, not four more. You get two more triggers. get two more triggers because they don't attack. They just enter. Is two more triggers worth it? I think so. I think so. Nope. Nope. Damage deals. Nope. No. No. No. No. No. No. On card. On card. I This gets huge later, but it's late game only, so probably not.

[14:55] Haste. Nope. What's this? Oh, almost missed Buster's sword. What does it do? Draw a card. You may cast a spell. So, it's card draw and you may get a free spell. Doesn't give you evasion. Just gives plus three. I don't think we need help casting equipments from our hands. I I guess we do cuz I mean if we draw them, we want to I think this is a maybe board and it's a cool new card, too. So, I kind of want to try it even though I don't think it's the best fit in this deck cuz we don't need that many equipments on the board. We just need we just need, you know, two or three. One for protection, one for pump, and we are already two hitting our opponents.

[15:40] Oh, and one for one for evasion. Nope, no, no, no, no. Hex proof. Yeah, we need more protection. So, absolutely. Chainsaw. Rev counter. No, it's too small. First strike, trample haste. Now, if this was flying, I would No, maybe not flying. If this was like vigilance or flying or lifelink, I would play it. But as is, no. Is there equipment that gives flying haste? H.

[16:20] We'll see. I remember there being one. Cloak of the bat. Flying in haste. Yeah, I think that's worth it. Worth a slot. Yeah, I think it's worth a slot. Shroud and plus two. Do we want shroud? I don't think so. I don't think our commander's ability targets. Yeah, it doesn't target, but we won't be able to equip anything else manually. Like lightning grief. I will play just because it's zero equip. I can move it. But this one, yeah, no colossal hammer plus 10. Uh, for now I want to say no just because we are I don't know.

[17:07] Loose is flying. It's kind of funny though. I guess maybe board for now. It's kind of funny. Commander plate protection from everything except red. Yeah, excuse me. Ah, see this is similar to the Bilbo string thing except it locks your opponent even more even harder just because the moment they see it from your ability, they cannot do anything. They cannot respond and no more spells. They can they can do abilities but no more spells. So this is Yeah, maybe we can just have one of these for the alpha strike scenario. But the ring gives gives unblockable and draws you cards.

[17:54] Do we play the ring or this one? The ring or this one? I'm leaning towards the ring even though it's three and four. Are we a halfling? We are not. Oh, maybe we're both. All right. When you cast your second spell each turn. Nope. Crystal slipper. I just want this for flavor. How does it fit? It no, I need to go fast. Why am I wasting time? Okay. Uh, plus one for each creature you control. If there is no monarch, become Yeah, dark steel plate.

[18:38] There's not that much indestructible even though this is kind of outclassed by the new I think it's called myithal coat but this is I think still worth playing just because it sticks around it's always there to give value and you can always pay two mana to protect something even if it's not your commander if it's just a random creature then that creature that creature is holding the fort so I think this card is very underrated dark still play yeah I think we we play it we play it later if it turns out there's a lot a lot of other other indestructible givers then we might cut it but I don't think I don't think there's too many what this do craft with no wait plus two plus two hex proof for mono color it cost one less for each color of the creature so cost three no I don't think it's worth No, no, no,

[19:42] no, no. Plus fiveish. I think it's worth it. It's cheap though. So maybe work cuz the pump is nice. Excell damage. No double strike. We have double strike, I think. What is Nope. Nope. Nope. Uh, blendering in.

[20:23] Nope. Where's hot soup? I want hot soup. That touch. Nope. Nope. Okay. I think we're going fairly quickly. What time is it? I actually don't know, but I think we're going. We're moving along. Infect. In fact. Well, maybe. I don't think we're using it, but this double strike is way too expensive. plus four. Yeah, see this is indestructible. That's really good. But the equipment itself doesn't have indestructible. So, it's a little bit different than dark steel plate. Dark steel plate will just usually when you cast it, it will just stick on the board for the entire game to give you value over time.

[21:08] Meanwhile, this will get, you know, will get wiped along with your commander. Not along with your commander, but this will protect your commander, but maybe if someone cast a board, all the equipments will be gone, hammer. Uh oh, there you go. Wait, visual. Okay, visions trample haste. Yeah, I think this can enough keywords. Nope. Nope. Nope. No. What? Oh, there's the activated ability that we can copy, but I don't think we're doing it. Um, plus comfort. No. Do we want the Kra set? Ah, first strike trump haste is not bad.

[21:50] We'll put it in the maybe board and see what the other ones do. If the other ones can do some something similar to this, I again the cards are not good. Not amazing, but I mean it's the counter set. It's so cool. This one definitely you get an extra commander. One to one to attack, one to defend. Yeah, hero's blade. Uh yeah, I wish this gave haste, but no kid. No, no, no, no. yeah. It's nice to see though. Infantry shield. See, this is cool. But if the I don't think we need another what 12 tokens attacking.

[22:34] Our commander should be getting it done. And meanwhile, if the tokens stayed, I would play this. But then this would also cost a lot more. And nope double damage. No no double strike trample I think is good enough even if we never use the the opening hand ability. The lay line ability. Greaves I think is a yes even though it's got shroud but it doesn't stop the equip ability. And if we want to equip other things, we can move greaves around to other creatures that we might we probably will have.

[23:18] All right. How many do we have now? Equipments. 20 19 equipments. So, six more at most. We're not playing more than 25 equipments. I don't think we need other tools otherwise this deck will just be so topheavy. Lizard Blade double strike. Now, this is some efficient double strike. I like it. And also, yeah, I like it because lizard blades, like in a pinch, lizard blades can also carry equipments super well. So, I think that goes in Los GT. This one definitely lifelink and nope.

[23:59] Nope. Wait, what's this? Oh, Nope. Nope. I throw a cult. Millionaire doesn't do anything. Uh 44. We don't need the angel. We're going to lifelink it. That's what we're Nikote. Is that the one with No. No. No. Nope. No. Well, for each artifact living weapon. So that Yeah, but this won't be like a plus five plus five at most probably.

[24:42] We won't have a huge port equipments. It's probably No. Plus two plus one haste. Are we a warrior? We are not a warrior. Okay. discards your hand. Nope. What does this do? Draw a card to discard a card. Equip one. Craft with more creature. I can't craft with Control. It's not Oh, it's not any good. Like if our commander dies, we can craft with our commander and then we can turn other things into our commander.

[25:27] Just too obsolete. Too too What's osite? Too convoluted is the word. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. No. No. Oh, next 60. We're almost done. Yeah, we're pretty close to finish. So, could thy return to the battlefield? This is like protection with lifelink, but you need sack outlets. Like, if you have outlets, you know what? This one might be decent. I may be boarded. The reason why I'm really hesitant now because we still have what, eight swords waiting for us.

[26:07] Yeah, we're not really setting a budget restriction for this one. Later, we can we can find other alternatives. The swords are good, but they're not necessary. But if you have the means, I mean, they're they're excellent cards. Like, one of the reasons you play equipment decks is for the swords, right? trample life link permanence blue hex proof we're not going to have too many removals probably so indestructible maybe board probably not crazy triple lifelink is good definitely but this ability is not super relevant plus one.

[26:58] Okay, maybe maybe this goes in in the end. Now, let's look at the Cra set. Indestructible. Indestructible. It's just a dark steel plate, but more expensive. Uh yeah, I don't think we're playing culture, unfortunately. Because the swords are coming up. We are We are at S shortbow. Just kidding. night. What? Side quest. How is this? Oh, it's an equipment in the back. No. Nah, I was like, how did you make it? This one goes in for sure. It's a protection spell that gives unblockable.

[27:42] Okay, let's see. What else have we H. Now you can see I'm just trying to get to the swords forest you control. We can make some forests. haste on tap. So vigilance first strike. Don't think it does enough. Yeah. No. Is my standard getting higher as we go? Like, did I put in some crap early on?

[28:22] Maybe I did. Maybe this one. And we'll have to play and see. First draft. Your first draft cannot be perfect, but we can try to push it close. Um, this can Yeah, this can pump like a lot. But is it a lot a lot? By a lot lot I mean like more than 15 because your commander is a 66. It is not a lot a lot and it only pumps. So I don't think it's good enough. Swiffer boots. Yes. Okay. SW time. Body and mind. Nope. Feast and famine. Yes.

[29:03] Fire and ice. Maybe. Maybe. for Frontier. Yes. And the the ramp ones are I think are just good because we got to pay for that commander tax. Uh okay. And uh gets a land and he can blink our commander. Do we want to blink our commander considering it probably has the sword and a bunch of other things equipped? We blink it for another trigger. Probably not. This one goes into maybe board. Guess it's a land But sword of TRA.

[29:46] Nope. Nope. Light and shadow. Nope. Ones in future. Serveville. Nope. Nope. We're not playing most of the swords, but there there has to be. I remember there being Yes. F word in peace is good. Word of peace is pretty aggressive. Vigilance trample. First strike. Vigilance trample. Haste. I think I will be playing this over the chariot from earlier. The cloak. The cloak goes to me board. Now, this is the keyword, too. I forgot about this card. Sword of vengeance. It's nuts. Wealth and power. Yeah, definitely. We're not playing a lot of instant sorceries, but we will have some.

[30:28] So, but more relevant is the protection for instance and sorceries. And also the treasure is nice. What the uh doesn't untap. No. What? No. Ah, yes. Ether spark. Masamune. What does that do? Must be blocked. Your dying custard could. No. That's too specific. That many treasure tokens. E. The maybe board because it's really tempting. is it's a bit wind more but must must feel good to have it have it happen.

[31:08] Whenever you attack, you can double strike, create a thing or see this card too, draw two is really good just because our hand will be filled with equipments. A lot of the large equipments that we probably won't be casting and also again double strike is always good and making. Yeah, I think this makes it I think it make How many equipments do we have? 31. We are five over already. Toro, let's hope we don't see anything else. That's good. Please. No. Oh no doubles. Oh, this one is pretty good. Crap. This one is pretty good. I think we maybe board it.

[31:49] I don't think maybe board is ever coming out. Like maybe we can play the game and then if any of this be uh turns out to be under underwhelming, we will sub some of these in. I mean just double strike is so good and also double power. This stacks with double strike. So in theory, you can one turn double strike two mana plus three plus two. You can double strike and double power and your opponents are just dead. Well, one of them is dead if you trample. It's tempting. We will see. We see. All right, moving on. Yay. I thought we're finished. Please. Ah, this is so good.

[32:30] Is it? It is. Crap. fly. Oh, we are finished. Okay. 32. I think we're cutting six. Yeah. Six artifacts or six equipments. Flying haste, though. Haste is so good. Is it? Yeah, it's so good. All right, let's be very critical. Yes. Yes. Absolutely. Yes. Yes. Yes. Think so. I think so. Yep.

[33:10] This will pump for maybe six or seven and it's only five mana, right? This pumps more than any other big pump that we've seen that's like around this mana cost, right? Do we play this? It's can't be blocked and shroud. Your opponents basically have to like react to this in a turn or they're dead. So I think it's good again like the again like Bilbo's ring right you flip it boom it's going through wolf empower is it that good mean put that in the maybe board because I don't know how many instances source we we will have some but probably not that many and not that many we want to cast our main face that that's also important So, uh, continue.

[34:07] One down, five to go. These cars. I think batter has to go. We have enough lifelink. Cloak. Yeah. Doesn't do that much. Uh. How many are we at? No, it's only nine. Okay, so we need to cut three more. Okay, let's do it. Let's do it. We can do it. Double strike is just so good. And also extra combat.

[34:49] The pump. They keep printing these amazing equipments. You know what, Warren? Uh from white though. Protection from white. Sufah hoots silver shout costume. Maybe the plate can make room for network commander plate protection from what the protection is. Awesome. Maybe this doesn't do enough. One or can we be a bit greedier and sit at 27 equipments? I think 20 honestly I think 25 is already a lot.

[35:30] So yeah, let's let's cut a few just to double strike. We have a lot of strike. Not we have a lot. You know what? This might be a mistake. But again, if we find that we are short on protection, we can come back. So now that we have the equipment package set, we have to take a look at so once we have the core of the deck, we have to take a look at what synergizes with our core, right? And like I was saying earlier, we have a lot of we might have a lot of equipment stuck in our hands. So I'm pretty sure we need some discard and draw spells.

[36:14] That's what we need. And off the top of my head, there is definitely scroll rack. That's a staple in these decks. Skorak. But aside from that, we're going to do some research. I think Skorak is famous enough for people to know about it. But the other cards, I think there's at least, you know, 10 really good discard and draw effects. We'll have to see if which ones are the best. So, draw and pipeline. I think we don't restrict typeline, do we? We'll see. Go.

[36:55] How many are there? 200. Not too bad. Let's go. Go. Yeah. I don't think we're playing. What does this do? Discard. Card. Draw a card. Unre false cost. No, not quite. Do we play looters? I don't think so. Because the looters themselves, they cost one card. So, I was thinking more those what's it called? The where you have to discard a card and draw two and you get two treasures. There's like three of them. Yes, but Zar of back. No, not quite.

[37:35] There you go. Big score. These are good. Bit of reunion. I think this one is good. Yeah, because again, haste is just huge in this deck. no. Discard any number. Draw any number if you descend it this turn. So, it's not going to flip. But again, no, I'll be discarding like two. So, basically, I'm discarding two, three. This one. Nope. Cavalier is interesting.

[38:17] discard any number. Draw that many cards and it gives haste, but it cost a fair bit of mana. So, probably not. Cathar reunion. Is this still good? Discard two draw three is still good. Might be might Nope. Nope. Nope. The ready. Discard two cards. Draw that many cards. Sacrifice an artifact.

[38:57] You can This guy can ch like loop equipments. I don't think there's too many equipments that are super worth reanimating. This card. Oh, sacrifice an artifact. Raw two cards. This might be good just because we can have some redundant equipments on the field. Yeah, it's flexible. It's flexible. That's what I like. Faithless stable.

[39:38] Sure. Supposed to be good. think we have enough now. Although we haven't gotten to the other the other treasure creating instinct yet. So we will look for that. Yeah. None of these are super good. What does this do? When evasion of ex No. No. Yes. No. Oh, this is good. Key to the city is good. Yeah.

[40:19] Unblockable. Cause alike. Probably not. Discard card drop. This is like a big faithless looting. I don't know how to evaluate these. I think put this in the maybe board. Okay, I think we're on the last page. Almost last page. Second last page. Because you control it deals damage, go to power discard draw from cards.

[41:01] It's actually not bad. I mean, I didn't mean to look for this, but do we give protection from red a lot? So, we have shroud and protection from red sometimes, but not not a lot. And if we can just boom the board. Yeah, we do need some board wipes. I think this is good along with Tundra's ignition. But this is better I think just because it's four mana and then you can also refill your hand kind of this one four mana but it's a sorcery why just strictly worse no feels bad we want the good one where's the good one before I don't think we're going to discard

[42:05] drop. speed. Speed. No. unexpected windfall is the one we're looking for. Trading post sack equipment draw a card sack creep. Discard a card. Gain four life. Don't think this does enough. Yeah. Wait, what's the yay do?

[42:51] no. Wheel of Fortune. No. No. No. No. No. No. Okay, that's it. So, now we are sitting at 35 cards. And at this point, we want we have a strategy. Yeah, we have pretty clear strategy. So, we want to play a few more cards that can enable to make sure our strategy works. And in this case, we want some finishers and some protection spells. Yes. To make sure our commander can stick because this we have plan A and no other plan basically. So protection spells the few that we know. So for for mono red, the best we can do is readites like deflecting swap.

[43:38] Put that in first. What? Oh, sorry. Right. Where? Where? Okay. So, all right. So, what are we going to search? I think we have to search change target. And then we have to make it red because there's no color. Oh, there is colorless. There's a colorless one, I think. So, well, but that one is protection. So, we're going to have to do this first. Okay. Change target. What? Oh, yeah. Bend. Bend. Absolutely. What's with these artifacts? Now, this one costs three mana to do, so it's a bit expensive.

[44:22] We'll see if we have better options. I'm sure we do. Do we? What? Really? This one's good. Change target evasion. Is that it? I think four protection spells is a bit low. I included I included uh this but I don't want to pay three mana for protection but I guess the equipments also help protect so we don't need need that many and also there's the colorless one let's take a look colorless and it's I think it's protect and I think we have to do instance or source foods because otherwise we'll get the equipments again let's See, there we go.

[45:13] Eldrich immunity. Why is Oh, yeah. This is a land. That's why this is colorless. Yeah, I think this is good. It will make our red equipments fall off. But we don't have too many of those. And there's one more card I remember off the top of my head. It's called H It's called What? It's called It says if your commander or if a creature has seven or more power, this spell is free. I know you're shouting at me, but this is not a stream. Ah, not of this world. Not of this world. There you go. Yeah, counter. Oh, counter target ability. Yeah, I think this is fine. You can even counter like Amaz.

[45:53] It's really cool. All right, so we got draw, we got protection. Now we're at 40 cards. We will need some finishers. Big finishers. And how to finish the game? Extra Yeah, when your opponents think they have two turns left, they have zero. That's how we finish in red. Like, if your opponents can see you killing them, you're not killing them. You just don't have the resources to to deal with other colors. They can remove, they can board wipe, they can bounce, right? You have to kind of catch them by surprise. And the best way to do it is extra combat source. I think we limited to instant sorcery because there's not that many creatures that Yeah, I think we have plenty of instance or sorceries that can give us the extra combat.

[46:40] What? Oh, sorry. Partial type match. I forgot to put the keyword. combats. Yeah, this is the best one. Full throttle, two combats, six mana, exile, two red grenel, free running untap that attack. There's an additional combat cost three mana if your connect if your commander connects. I think it's fine. We will see if we have too many. We want maybe four or five of these. We don't want too many cuz the window to use these is not all it doesn't happen all the time. You have to have it everything set up.

[47:22] Uh, this one cost one, two, three, four. Four mana to to do extra combat, but also can pump. This we don't need. And we get one treasure, maybe two. So, this is not great. We will see. We will see. We might come back. Savage beating is expensive, but it's ridiculous because you get double strike and extra combat on one card. So, you can kill easily kill two opponents with this. So, I think yeah, at seven mana is fine. And it's also five mana if you just want one of the modes. Seize the day. Absolutely. When you have Voltron, this is Okay, that's it. How many do we put in? We put in one, two, three, four.

[48:03] Four. One more. Okay, let's do one more. All right, now we are at 45 cards. And we will definitely need a lot of ramp for this deck because our commander is so expensive. Okay, mans. We want them to be four C. Uh let's just reset. How do you reset doesn't? Okay, fine. I willclick all these. Oh, this is this is fine. Red and um add and has to be artifact and not a creature. I don't think we want creature ramp. And we want it to be four CMC or lower less than or equal to four.

[48:52] Uh okay. Okay. Uh we have 253. But in this case, I think most of them we know like we're not going to play with the bottle heads probably. Although this one gives haste, but three mana to give haste. No. Yeah. So I think we know mostly what we're playing. We're going to play probably 10 or so mana rocks. It's a bit high the number, but our commander kind of recoups the lo the loss of card advantage. So hopefully it will be fine. We won't be out of gas. Yeah. Okay. So, we'll go fast here. And I just remembered something. I just remembered something because there is a rock kind of that works really well with this deck.

[49:34] It's the one that gives artifacts. No, gives spells. What's it called? Not affinity. The one for spells for for artifacts. It's three mana. I'm doing this now because I'll forget later. So, I will add it now. It's called not affinity, not inspire. It says non artifact spouse. I think this should get us there. What? What? What is pretty sure it says not?

[50:16] Oh, there you go. Non artifact spells you have you cast have impro improvise. Yes. And what this does is this itself is a mana rock that helps us that helps us cast our commander. But it makes every artifact on board or equipment on board able to tap to help cast our commander because chances are there are more creature wipes than artifact wipes. So your opponents will be able to deal with this but possibly leave a board of equipments around and with this we can basically bypass the commander attacks and more. So I think again this is just a three mana rock right for the purpose of this deck. So, I'm pretty sure we're doing this. And for the rest of them, we are going to And this is kind of tech that you probably won't think of.

[50:58] Like, it's impossible to search for something like this, but as you play or just from uh experience from the past, you will find cards like these that are just ah they're so sweet to to use. Yeah. But I'm sure I'm missing a bunch of these, but these are the only ones I can think of right now. But it's okay to start off a little bit generic and then we can slowly make our decks more and more synergistic. Blitz Ball. Blitz Ball. I like this a lot. I'll play I'll play it just because it's a draw spell. Like late game, you can draw with it, right? So, this will help you power out the commander and then right immediately after your commander hits, you can just cash it in for two cards.

[51:38] So, it's excellent. All right. No, no, no. I promise. Okay. Let's go fast now. No more No more uh curve balls. Everything straightforward. Nope. Yes, this one. This one. Yeah, this one is good because it gives you another trigger of the commander. All right. You can just three mana. Yeah, this is good. Drink stealing. Probably not. Let's We have two now. Two. Three. Technically three. Okay. More. More. More.

[52:23] We don't want mana double works because we don't have to use for big mana stone maybe because our commander is six mana so I don't think we need too many too many two mana ones I think three four mana is fine especially three uh but then turn two turn three because if we turn three mana rock turn four mana rock then we just accelerated our commander by one turn but if we can get a turn two mana rock consistently we accelerated by two turns so I was wrong we do turn two yes we want some turn two okay keep looking looking what is this player die no monolith It's so good, but it's so expensive.

[53:17] What's our budget at? 430. So, it's kind of reasonable. If we put this in, the deck becomes Yeah, I don't think we're going to stretch our budget like that. Where are you? I cut you. There you go. It's also a game Um, is this good? You can cash it in later for two cards. We do kind of want the mana though, ideally. So, four mana at two. No, four mana. I honestly I'm regretting searching for four cuz we don't want four drop man rocks cuz four drop man rocks, it only accelerates your commander by one turn anyways.

[54:00] So, yeah, they don't do that much. So, I think we're not going to play for drops. Two and three is the the way to go. Not bobblehead though. Oh, Joe Lotus is the kind of enabler this tech needs. But but gold survival. No. No.

[54:42] No, man. Vault again is good, but it's not worth the the cost. Mind stone. Absolutely. This new these new arts the new hearts are really distracting. I feel like this looks like just a generic uncommon here. It looks like any other almost skipped it. Model of unity forbears. I thought there'd be more. Pre-triarch seal. What does this do? Nope. Nope. Nope. This one I like.

[55:23] This one I like because it gives your commander flash and which make helps it dodge all the sorcery speed removals. So you can flash in your commander at the end of your previous opponent's turn and then attack immediately. So I want to play What? It's a new card. Okay, cool. Cool, cool, cool.

[56:03] I think this one's good enough. Yeah, Sky Clearing. Yay. Again, I almost skipped it just because unblockable. Yeah, I think that's good. And there's one I'm waiting for. It's one that the one that turns into an equipment. That one I think is super good, but I'm not seeing it. Theatic compass. I really like this card, but maybe not here. Oh, there you go. Iron Craig. So, your legendary Yeah. It powers out your commander and then immediately just turns into an equipment that attaches to it.

[56:45] And see, note the the quotation marks end here. So your commander doesn't lose the abilities. This this got me confused for a while. This loses all other abilities. Yeah. So your it doesn't hurt your commander. It's just plus three plus three. And it's free to equip, right? Oh, no, no, no. It's not free to equip. But yeah, it's still it's still pretty good. And it's a two mana mana rock. It's Yeah, there's not many of those. We will never have maximum hand No treasure map. No. No. No. How many are we at? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10.

[57:26] I think we have enough. Yeah. 10 to 11. Uh, how many cards do we here? 56. We are pretty close. I think now we just need some generic good stuff. Generic monor red good stuff. Now we are not using Rex. So, we're just going to have to do it off the top of our heads. And again, the good stuff are fairly easy to come up with, I'd say, right? I mean, like we need removal, blasphtorm.

[58:06] Also, these damage based wipes can't be one-sided because of how big our commanders are. And being uh starr Yeah, instant speed is huge and also cycling is nice sometimes. Should I put in You know what? I'll do it. thematic compass. I'll show it to you. So, I will use card search just because again we play a lot of ramp, but if we miss land drops, it's like you're paying three mana for a rock and then you miss a land drop.

[58:50] You might as well just activate the compass and eventually it ramps you again, turns into a land with ma fifth ability, which is super useful in this deck. Yeah. So, I think we put it in. This is not a land slot. Oh, what? We're at 60 cards. We need I think 37 lands in this deck is enough. How are we doing? What? What's with air? Oh, not legal. Okay. Um, yeah, I think we could use a chest as well here. It's not too expensive now, is it? How much is it? What? What's happening?

[59:30] Yes. Oh, sorry. There you go. Now, there you go. We're at Yeah, we're pushing $500, but again, when you're doing monocolor with equipments, it's Yeah, it's not the most budget friendly route take. Two more cards. We do need more removals. I can't remember, but but I think we're just Oh, I remembered the the counter spell to bolts trickery cuz that's like a protection spell. So let's replay that and then two more removals and then we are done. What's happening? Why is just because I searched for compass? Why are you doing this to me?

[1:00:11] trickery. There you go. I have no idea what's happening here. Boom. And then I remember there being red removals that either shuffle or destroy. Or do we want ah do we want colorless? You know what? I think this deck needs an Ugan. Is it Ugan? Ujin. Ugan. Yeah, just cuz Ugan like if you if you spend a lot of money on one card, I think it's Ugan. Even the swords are not necessary. And what are the big money cards in this deck? 49 22. So nothing huge, right? It's just they add up a little bit.

[1:00:51] What was expensive here? Oh, yeah. the swords. I think Ugan is what you scourge for. I'm not sure how much it is right now, but just because there's so much colorless, all your opponents are cutless except for your commander who's six mana and you need board wipes. You need board. You can't just play without removals and board wipes. So, I think don't give me that spirit dragon. How much is it? 20. Okay, not too bad. Not too bad. $22. Are we done? We are done. Later you might have to adjust the deck. Maybe cut a few equipments for more interaction perhaps, but for now we want to try this.

[1:01:33] I think 25 is a good ratio because any lower you have a decent chance of whiffing. Yeah, we want ideally we want to put one or two equipments down every attack, right? So this is fine. Now we're on to the lands. How do we search for lands? I think we just go through it really quickly. Lands commander. Boom. Astergo. This is really good. It's like a graveyard hate plus recursion. Although we don't have many key artifacts to recur, it's still still fine, I think. Yeah, the graveyard hate is super relevant.

[1:02:14] And we don't need that much color, to be honest, because we just need two red. And what else do we need? Maybe one more red to protect later. Yeah, we're fine. Let's go fast. How many lands do we have to choose from? Yeah, 400. Okay, not as bad as I thought. Ancient tomb. I really want to play this ancient tomb, but yeah, is actually pretty good in this deck, but we'll we'll we'll save it for now. Haste. Do we want to play the speed trio, the three speed lens? Cuz haste is really good. I'll maybe board them. This this may this one they might actually come out of the maybe board, but I have to see what all three of them do. Okay, go go go go go fast.

[1:02:55] Oh, haste. Almost it. Go, go, go. What? Discard a card. See, this is a loot, which is also decent. Why we need to play three? Because we're doing Oh, you know what? Never mind. because we are not going to be hitting our opponents that much. Like we'll be hitting them, but each hit will be like half of the commander damage meter. So, every hit will be difficult. The chance of us playing the land and then enabling speed going to two, three, four, I don't think is super high. So, never mind. I don't think we play the speed but we can keep looking.

[1:03:43] Blink Moth we don't need but I think we do play Ink Moth just as a backup backup win condition. Do we want this draw only for power greater? No, it's only usable late. And if our commander is on the board, we have better use for the mana. Probably. So probably not. We don't have anything that's if we have an oblivious stone here, maybe. But we don't have anything that's super important to recur. So, no plus one. Exalted. Nah, we don't need the plus ones. Hide away. Nope. Command beacon.

[1:04:25] Yes. Our commander is going to get killed. No. This This land is just not very good, I Village. Um. No, no, no, no. What is this? Nonhuman. This is a human. Ah, destroy land. We do need to blow up Miths. So, we will see. Is this like another command beacon almost?

[1:05:06] Not really. Yes. Discard a card. This is good. Is this expensive? I'm not sure. We'll see. 538. Oh, it's a bit expensive, but this is really good because Yeah, because you have a lot of artifacts. Usually three or four, right? Then you can discard a card and then you can because you don't have to get an artifact.

[1:05:47] You can get anything. Yeah, I think this is worth But everyone gets to do it though, so Um, oh, absolutely. Sure, why not? Again, we don't care too much about them being colorless. Do we want to play this to work with Ugan? No. So, we don't have ways to tutor either either of these.

[1:06:29] Scollet. Do we need a We don't. I don't think so. Home word path. No, I don't think so. What is this? Nope. Yeah, there you go. We need Inkmoth as our backup. This is like my one backup condition to strap two equipments onto Inkmoth and boom and boom people for 10 infect. All right. Inventor's fair. Search for an artifact. Don't again. I don't think G's life. Oh, sorry. I don't know why I keep looking at the maybe board, but um yeah, the the meat is here.

[1:07:12] Yeah, I should be looking at these. But no, there's nothing too important we should we should be looking for. Maybe like evasion when we need it. Yeah, maybe. see. Yeah, I'm starting to think as long as have a has a little bit of value, we can just play the lens, the colorless lens, cuz we don't care so much about colors. Sack a creature. This can bring our commander back for for eight mana. No, this No, this one's decent.

[1:08:02] This one's decent. Let's store mana. Yeah. Moaning wall. workshop. Mary landscape is good. Do we want a mutal? can turn into a samurai, but it can help us stop edict effects or like you know those flashback marers. So, we'll see. Maybe. Oh, we are so close. How long has I want to know what time it is. We're at just above one hour. Okay, this is Yeah, it's not bad.

[1:08:47] This sure and these MDFCs are just especially the ones that you can pay life to play. They're you play them very little very little opportunity cost. Plaza heroes. This is good. Yeah, this is a production spell. Oh, where's that land? That gives a commander lifelink. It's called Okay, witches clinic coming up. Coming up. We don't need hand sides. Nope. What is this? Lizard. Nope. Unblockable. Sure. Hate.

[1:09:29] Yes. Sure. Again. Pay three life. Place intercapped. We can afford that life. No This is good. Let's get some blockers or sack sack foders to the edict effects. Spine No, probably not. I mean, we're just going to get an equipment and then cheat it in on our main face. It's not that good. Strip line. Yes. Do you need at least one? Maybe even one more like a wasteland sunken citadel.

[1:10:12] Ah, this card this card is good. Yeah, cuz it also protects your commander and also lets you ramp. If you just pay four mana, you can put it into play. Like you can cast your commander on your main face, do whatever trigger and then protect it. If you if you're not in a under too much pressure, you can just phase it out and the next turn he will come in and you can attack, right? Or you can hold if you can hold four mana. It's just a protection spell from from everything. So I think we play it. Even though this card, how much is it? It's a bit ah Okay, this card good. Five or more lands.

[1:10:54] Maybe not bit risky. Where's our clinic? Where is our What's coming up? Oh, the tower. No, no, no. I cannot play this. We are a Volron deck with equipments. Or is a saga searches for Sori? That's it. No. There you go. This is one that we can play. Don't think we play Valut.

[1:11:34] We We don't I don't think we have too many mountains. How many lands do we have now? We have 18 lands. 21 lands. Yeah, getting getting five other mountains from from my experience doesn't doesn't really happen even in So, I'll skip it for now. War room. Yes. Wasteland. Yes. Winding cannons. I like a lot. Like you can again the same reason is the flash is good. Your commander is so big that you drop it.

[1:12:14] If it doesn't attack immediately then your opponents will just be staring at it as like they have an entire turn to remove it. It's a big dumb thing that's sitting there possibly with no protection. So, I think we play it. Oh, there you go. There's the clinic. And I think this rounds up. Yeah. Our non-basic lands. And we come to the most challenging part of the deck, which is picking which mountain art to use. We need uh 13, I think. 13 more lands. 12 more lands. 12 more. Okay. Car search. Go. Oh, go away.

[1:12:56] I'm so sick of you. But how do you I don't understand why this keeps coming up. Why? Oh, because Okay. Mountain. Nope. There. Well, we can't choose the mountain. Yes, we can. Yes, we can. Set comp. No. No. No. You know what? Oh, there you go. There you go. I was just about to give up Final Fantasy. This one. Does Gilgamesh fit this kind of It's kind of Japanese samurai kind of.

[1:13:41] Nope. There has to be a samurai right? Gilgamesh's fort here. No. Let's go to Kamagawa then because we have the samurai aesthetic. Show more. Okay, we will settle. I'm sorry I I dropped the ball, but we will settle for now. Not this. Not for this. Yeah, sure. Mountain samurai works. 12. Is it 12? Go. What's happening? I think we did it. 100 cards $800, but we can cut it down to 500 if you don't.

[1:14:24] There's a few cards that are like $30, $40. I think you can cut them painfully, but it's cutable. And here we go. This is the Gilgamesh deck that we made in an hour and 20 minutes approximately. And we'll be right back. Welcome back. And here's what our deck looks like. Honestly, I don't really understand how architect organizes these cars. I have to do it manually if I really want them to be neat because I tried to group by categories, but it doesn't make much sense. So, I guess we'll do it by type, which makes it clear. And again, I'll talk a little bit about the budget because we'll sort by price. Yeah, again, the deck is sitting at $800 for I believe the cheapest versions, but this is a bit inflated because of just a few cards.

[1:15:12] Uh, for example, Deflecting Swat at 60. Oh, this is expensive. Yeah, Valut Awakening. It's a good card, but I think it's quite good in this deck, but again, it's not nothing that we cannot cut. And looking down here, Commander Plate is definitely not necessary. You can replace this with any protection or just any equipment really. We we've got enough protection, I'd say. And down here, Jessica's Will again is really good. $22. But I mean, most of the time we'll be playing this as a ritual. So you can play a parotic ritual instead of this and you will probably do okay. Or the other card called Iron Craig Feat, the one that costs four mana and adds seven mana to your pool.

[1:15:56] I think we'll do similar things. And I didn't know this card was so expensive at $14, right? $14. So it's So, the only card I again, like I was saying, I really want to spurge for this deck would be Ugan because it's in this deck. It's actually so one-sided and Ugan is just amazing for any deck that doesn't have access to good board Yeah. Although, even if we cut a lot of the expensive cards, it will be difficult for us to drop this down to below 500 just because if you look at a lot of the equipments, people love equipments and they're not cheap. They're the average price is kind of, you know,5 to105 each and you kind of have to play them because they're the equipments.

[1:16:39] Yeah. So to build such a deck, you have to be prepared for it to be kind of at least a mid-budget deck. But yeah, that is uh that's the budget part. And now we I guess we can goldfish it a little bit. Although I have to warn you, goldfishing is very misleading just because you can do it to kind of get a feel of how the mana works in the early turns or whether Gilgamesh is going to whiff a lot. But first of all, because commander, there's so much variance that you can't really collect any meaningful data unless you do it, you know, 100 200 times. A lot of this is very subjective. And also, time goes by fast when you're goldfishing. You're like, "Oh, this is only turn four. I have my commander." But actually, four turns is a long time in commander, right?

[1:17:20] And by turn four, a lot can happen, especially when it's powered by powered by soul ring or multiple soul rings. So, we'll see. We'll see. I mean, are you already here? Might as well. Ah. Uh, we don't want this. Oh, we have we have three landmark. I think it's fine. I think it's fine. We just need one more red source. That shouldn't be a problem, right? Right. Never punished. Never punished. Okay, draw. There you go. There's the red source assuming someone is playing red at your table, which is pretty safe, I'd say. Four players, four, three opponents. Land draw. That's a good land to draw.

[1:18:00] But we're going to stone and the commander here. And next turn, we have our commander. Although ideally, we don't want to use the talent gates to drop our commander, but we will see. Draw. We're using the talent gates. So, I guess we face out a key creature on opponent's side and then yeah, Gilgamesh time. See what we get. Pop six. Let's get a haste. Double strike trample. That's a haste, please. Okay, this is super dangerous because, you know, your opponent's seeing this, they probably have to remove it. And we do not have protection mana up.

[1:18:41] So it would have been really nice if we could drop Gilgamesh and then Talon case, but I think at this point it's safe to assume that Gilgamesh is dying. Yeah, I wouldn't. So yeah, unfortunately Gilgamesh is dying. But goldfishing past this point is kind of pointless because we don't really know what would happen. But yeah, and Fore Vault is actually really good here cuz um you can Wait, did I just miss this? Yeah, I did. Gilgamesh is not dying because we protect it. It's so random sometimes. Yeah. Was that in my head? That was Yes. Yes. Okay. Yeah. Cuz Gilgamesh gets plus one and this is free. All right.

[1:19:21] We We win. Uh let's attack. Do we attack? Yeah. Let's attack and see what Boom. Uh do we get Yeah, one more. Yeah, why not? Hex proof. Oh, did we go greedy? We do have another protection Honestly, I think we go greedy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's Let's be greedy. So, yeah. That's what it looks like. You need to kind of Sometimes you have to be greedy just because you're not going to win super late into the game. So, you have to kind of get some damage through early and accumulate some advantage.

[1:20:03] And blade themselves. I mean, if we get another trigger, let's see. Uh, we make we get three triggers total, right? Top six. Not great, but six more. Yeah. Calra. Calra. And then six more. I got nothing. Yeah, but both of these are in play, right? So, you can just equip later. Yeah, this is what a typical start looks like. I think this is a fairly average start. Let's try one more just to see. Um, D two lands. It's not enough mulligan. Is this enough lands? But no, I think we go to six because again this deck mulligan's really well.

[1:20:45] You can just, you know, put the equipments away, right? You don't have to keep the equipments in your hand. So, let's mulligan down to five. Six. Six. Six. Six. S6.66 with a rock. No, go to five. Yay. That's such a good hand though. I want to keep all these. But we'll put away we'll put away a three rock and a rock. Like this. Like this. Sure. Yeah, that's fine. Keep draw. Draw. Play a rock. Draw. Don't think we'll be able to flash in Gilgamesh. So, just commander sphere is fine. Then draw. Time for Gilgamesh.

[1:21:25] This is turn four. Gilgamesh. Haste, please. Indestructible is nice, too, but Maybe we don't have enough haste. So, at least it's protected for our turn. Hopefully, then uh draw. Oh, see this is a great turn. If Gilgamesh lived, right, Holy. So, we just go greedy. I think you have to go for it. Or when you have the chance to win, you have to go for it. playing conservatively is uh but then but then because you have this right so it's possible that you know when you're attacking one opponent two other opponents are holding removal waiting yeah waiting for the chance to to use it later on but now if I drop this they don't have a chance anymore if they have a spot removal and then I get two more triggers and We can hope that we get some something

[1:22:29] explosive. We're not taking this because this prevents us from targeting. So yeah, I think that's it. And then uh yeah, we're going to seize the day. So that's four mana. Another attack. One, two, three, four, five, six. I think the sword is fine. Spear is also good. Sword or spear? Maybe we can use the spear to loot a little bit. Yeah, let's take the spear because we get one more combat. And also sword prevents uh sees the day. Yeah, that new one. All according to plan. Okay. And yeah, sees the day again.

[1:23:10] I don't know why I'm tapping, but sees the day. Six more. Ah, this would have been nice last turn or last combat, but it's still pretty good. at this point. Maybe commander plate. No, still this. And then hopefully next turn we can. Oh, and also we get to trigger this. We get to discard two cards and draw two cards. Yeah. And then we get a production spell, right? Almost. Oh, we did. We did. Okay. Although although this is not super irrelevant now because our opponents are probably not targeting Gilgamesh, although they they can target our equipment, so it's not bad.

[1:23:56] All right, let's do just one more. Just one more. Gold fishing is honestly kind of addicting. Yeah, this is a good hand. Good hand. We have two red sources and uh not the best, but pretty good. Draw. Land. Draw. Land. Draw. Commander Sphere. Draw for a M of Moria. Do we big score? I think we big score. Yeah, we big score the end of turn. So, we discard a card. Discard Kdra. We're not casting it anytime soon. Probably not. Yeah. And draw two and get two gold tokens.

[1:24:36] So, then what we're doing is draw for turn. Didn't get a land, but we have gold. So, we tap tap t top t top t top top. Five six. We have one gold left. Oh, that's a bit awkward. Why we didn't get a land? I think we use both gold so we can you we can keep Aldrich immunity protection. Uh yes, that is the correct play. So we use both her gold and commander. Yay. Six. One, two, three, four, five, six. Excellent. Yeah, it's not bad. Not bad. Not bad.

[1:25:20] So yeah, then I don't think this is we would be using this cuz we have protection anyways. So let's say we draw land. Um yeah, we attack. See what happens. Two, three, four, five, six. This is excellent cuz we are doing uh yeah we are doing what how much damage nine damage right nine damage easily and so ether spark's getting nine counters and we can make lots of mana play a bunch of these get one more Gilgamish trigger destroy everything and hold up counter spell because n mana is a lot of mana h good start okay So, this is the Gilgamesh deck.

[1:26:13] Although, I kind of just thought of this. I remember I promised early in the game or early in the video that we are going to look at some samurai. So, just to make sure we don't miss any secret crazy good samurai. Let's take a look. I I I remember maybe seeing a mono red one in the new set, but I can't remember. Just take a look. Boom. Boom. Do it. Um, this one is not bad. Gives haste.

[1:26:53] Aside from that, yeah, aside from that, there's not too much, I don't think. Was there a samurai in the new set? No, maybe not. All right, that is it for our This is our Gilgamesh video. And again, this is aimed to show you how I build a deck from zero, from scratch. Just, you know, have some ideas and grab onto the idea and try to make something happen. Why is there an ad? Thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. And please remember to subscribe. And this is something again very different. Please let me know if this is the kind of video you like because it's a bit longer. It's a bit slower the tempo. There's no tempo.

[1:27:34] I just speak, no script. And honestly, if you have insomnia, this this kind of video might be helpful. But yeah, thank you. See you soon.
