# Raph and Mikey is NOT a Creature Deck
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/vL-QThi6QHo
date: 2026-05-08 | views: 20,792 | likes: 760 | comments: 265 | length: 8:19 | words: 1,818 | wpm: 218.7
chapters: 0:00 <Untitled Chapter 1>; 1:38 Skip Ad
tags: Magic the Gathering, MTG, EDH, Commander, Raph and Mikey, Ninja Turtles, Control, Gruul

[0:00] Gruul is probably the worst color combo for control in all of magic. Really any of the other three colors alone probably has better tools than green and red combined. So, what does it take, mental illness aside, for someone to attempt the blue play style with green and red? Hello, this is Chin with Next Level Commander and today we'll talk about how we ended up with the conclusion that control is the best game plan for a particular Gruul Commander. Actually, I'm pretty curious. Have you seen someone play Gruul control? What's the Commander? And why are they doing this to themselves? Well, today the card in question is Rath and Mikey. And most people, including myself, when we see a card like this, this is what happens in our brain.

[0:42] &gt;&gt; This is normal and healthy. But my friend Seb is the opposite of that. Actually, he's probably one of the best pre-modern pox players in the world and even made a YouTube channel dedicated to it. Uh, check him out if you're into that stuff. Anyways, so Sam is also a long-time polymorph enthusiast. So, when he saw Rath and Mikey, he had different thoughts. To sum it up, less is more. Because with this kind of effect, every extra creature we include is just lowering our consistency. Rather than unpredictable chaos, Sam wanted to build around a cohesive game plan. Oh, and speaking of plants, I have an affiliate link, though. Yes, for deck boxes, sleeves, and a lot more. It is a really interesting and unique brand, Kakapopo TCG. Check out their site. They have some sweet designs at excellent prices.

[1:23] Yeah, excellent prices and I was talking about plants. Yeah, plants. Yes, yes. So, I've been using these deck boxes from them and they're genuinely really high quality and I have no plans of replacing them anytime soon or ever. Nice. Smooth. Link down below. Also, there's a code for 5% off. Okay, so the conclusion Sam ended up with is extra combat enablers, cards like Raphael, Tag Team Tough, and Port Razer. Now, this makes sense. Hitting one of these would reset our Commander for another hit and possibly again. With Rath and Mikey being seven power, the possibility of straight up killing with Commander damage is very real. Cool play. But the problem is these are the two creatures that do the thing, and that's it. No other extra combat creatures energize as well with our commander.

[2:03] So, we have to dig a bit deeper. We ended up finding Moraug. I'll be honest, this card makes everything a lot more awkward. Uh for example, we have to remember to always play our land drop in the second main phase, always. And, this guy is also a large part of the reason we are conservative with casting our commander. Ideally, we only do it with some mana to spare. But, we are willing to jump through all these hoops because when this card goes off, it ends games. And, we have a ton of ramp spells. Also, for this deck, I decided to go with off-color fetches. But, even then, we only have three creatures. That's not quite enough, so we had to go a bit deeper with extra combat spells. Only the best ones though, full throttle, great train heist, overpowering attack, and savage beating, and seize the day. With any of these in hand, we can reset Raff Mikey and go for another round.

[2:45] One problem though, the turtles are seven mana already. We won't have much to spare. So, as a solution to that, we're bringing in two more creatures in Old Gnawbone and Ancient Copper Dragon. One hit from these and we'll most likely be mana positive for the turn. Two hits or more and we are straight up taking over the game. Now, hitting one of these when we don't have extra combat in hand is not ideal, but it's still crazy value for our deck. And, that's all for creatures, just five. Nothing else makes the cut. Okay, to be fair, Blightsteel is probably more than good enough, but I'm just not a fan of the way it kills someone out of nowhere, but there's nothing stopping you. But yeah, five creatures and every single one is bomb. As long as we get the turtle trigger, we can threaten to kill one person, possibly more. Cool play. But, if you're good at math like I am, you probably realize this does leave a gaping 90-card hole in our deck.

[3:29] No more creatures, but any other card type is fair game. That sounded pretty exciting until I explored this color combination a bit more. Turns out Gruul is literally only good for creatures, and is crap at everything else. Garbage planeswalkers, awful artifacts, mediocre enchantments with no synergy whatsoever, and I guess that leaves us with instants and sorceries. Now, don't get me wrong, those are crap, too. But, control actually makes sense here. Sure, we don't have the best tools, but we do have mana advantage. And our commander is a really lethal and consistent finisher. So, Ruric and Mikey control is somehow where we landed. Ramp, control the board, keep our opponents down, and and they will always have to play around the threat of Ruric and Mikey coming down and wrecking their life totals. Gruul control is seriously happening.

[4:11] You know, I'm always a Progenitus worshiper at heart, but playing this guild and feeling intelligent at the same time is not something I've experienced. But why not? Gruul players can be smart, right? &gt;&gt; Well, you see, this is a library and a rack of scrolls. All very academic stuff. So, with these we can do the top deck manipulation, which synergizes with our off-color fetch lands for additional draw filtering. Not to mention the possibility of resource conversion where we can store away the creatures we end up drawing for cards we actually intend to cast. Life's stream's blessing and return of the wildspeaker may seem a bit counterintuitive in a deck as creature light as ours, but we do reliably deploy our commander, which usually comes with more. Card advantage is absolutely crucial in any control deck, and recursion is what we excel at.

[4:55] We maximize the mana advantage with season's past and praetor's council. This room here is also excellent with the aforementioned collection of fetch lands. Crow's and reclamation here is to shuffle our creatures back in case the skirmish is prolonged. Once in future is still the best instant speed recursion spell that allows the adaptive maneuverability of setting a card on top of the library if we happen to recur a creature. And now we arrive at the crux of any robust control strategy, interaction on multiple axes. The stack is of course our domain with Tibalt's trickery, and that's all we have. Okay, but for permanence we disrupt their play pattern with pieces like beast within, chaos warp, and we break card parity with the likes of force of vigor and guff rewrites history. But of course, in a deck that transcends creature-based game plans for the most part, board wipes is how we completely topple their board state inertia.

[5:41] Domri's predation, Ugin, Vandalblast, and reckless endeavor all have their price, but the off-turn response window is where games are won. Clearing the board with a Starstorm or Delayed Blast Fireball and deploying the control turtles immediately after is where we close out games. With such a high cost, high impact, commander protection is necessary, but only in moderation this time. Except for ramp. Resource accumulation is where green out paces any competition, especially when the ideal juncture to deploy our commander is with some mana to spare. All optimal mana choices, except Thematic Compass maybe, but we are all aware of the importance of consistent mana threshold attainment. Also, a few ritual effects for some early game surprise escalation. And just a few pieces of miscellaneous utility, Sapling Nursery to take advantage of the constant terrain shifts and constant mists for a protection and opponent morale degradation.

[6:26] For lands, we play Wasteland enablers for Flash and Cactus Preserve for a tactical 7/7. An Ancient Tomb since we are firmly in bracket three already. Why not? Still, we have just one more game changer slot, too. I I guess The One Ring fits our archetype pretty well. Oh, and as mentioned earlier, we are going to go full fetch lands because of how crucial this guy is to our game plan. But also, we have a synergy package. And just make sure we have enough basics for the ramp spells and we are set. There's the list. And now, let's go over the game plan a little bit, particularly involving Raff Mitey. Here, timing is everything. If we can blitz with them very early on, we usually take the opportunity. But if the board state is more developed, I'd rather wait till we have eight or nine mana than dropping them ASAP. We only drop them when we feel relatively safe from interaction and when at least one opponent is open to attack by our weakest creature, Port Razer.

[7:12] Now, if you're completely out of gas, but have tons of mana, I'm sure you can drop them to test the waters or even as a blocker. We need to be flexible, but for the most part, the moment we drop the turtles, we are nearly guaranteed to hit one of the big three. The Minotaur will likely win us the game on the spot, while the dragons will provide us with enough mana to cast an extra combat spell. But yeah, timing, timing, timing is everything. Play with the deck a bit, it will take some getting used to. And there you have it, the Gruul deck that strives to be more. This deck is genuinely really strong, capable of crazy explosive starts, while still able to keep itself in the game well into the later phases. It's not the easiest to play and the pattern does take some getting used to again. If you want to optimize the deck, it won't be cheap and the budget is used on some of the pretty important pieces.

[7:53] And this deck sits firmly in bracket three. Oh, and I should mention this from the original creator of the deck. Sam is firmly against soaring and refuses to include it in any deck. Instead, he swears by need for speed as something you drop the turn you're ready to win the game. So, take that into consideration, I guess. All right, that's all for the deck talk. And remember, if you love life and want to be good to yourself, check out Kakapopo products with my discount code. And if you don't, check out Sam's channel. I'll see you later.
