# Baeloth Dominates the Combat Phase? | Playing With Myself Ep.3
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/vu17J5VJ8ho
date: 2026-03-15 | views: 537 | likes: 12 | comments: 2 | length: 1:10:40 | words: 10,217 | wpm: 144.6

[0:00] Welcome to another episode of playing with myself, name tentative, but I'll be honest at this point I'm just waiting for someone to be annoyed enough to give me a better name in the comment section because I'm out of ideas, man. I'm out of ideas. So, anyways, today we are featuring a different deck with Belbe Bertolt. If you've seen the deck tech, you know this deck has one and only one game plan. To keep Belbe alive and growing. That's it. And this is supposed to fend off whatever your opponents can throw at us. Sounds good, but how does it work in practice? We are about to find out. And once again, we have a selection that is an attempt to recreate the average Commander night table with some of the most popular choices. Our first new opponent is none other than number two in the all-time Commanders list, Edgar Markov.

[0:44] Now, I know if you focus on the Eminence ability and abuse it, Edgar has potential to be much higher than bracket three, but I just want a nice vampire tribal deck, you know, where I can play the fanciest, the coolest vampires I own. So, it might not be the most powerful or consistent Edgar deck, but even then, this deck should sit comfortably at bracket three and be able to dish out some solid beatdowns. Our next opponent is Sauron representing hard control with the dirtiest tricks that Grixis has to offer. Sauron provides reliable way to win the game with our massive orc army. Combined with unblockable and red's unique form of evasion, we have finishers without having to resort to combo. And finally, we have a returning guest in Belbe artifacts, another explosive all-in strategy that seeks to apply pressure early.

[1:27] Can Belbe gold everything? We will find out. Okay, we are going to figure out the starting player. We are starting with Being a control deck, we really do appreciate the head start because we're against, yeah, two really aggressive, really fast Uh okay, we got I don't know. Okay, this saves the day because we can turn three talisman, uh turn two talisman, and turn three relic, and we are pretty much online, and we just need some draw spells and worst case this can be a draw spell right or we can just get an early Sauron out to turn on the deadly relic so seems It's below draw land coat of arms.

[2:13] Okay, this is very good. We have our color oh semblance sample is Give me a land give This is a good hand because we can semblance sample on turn turn three and then all these will be cheap and the mightstone can draw us cards so this is a very good hand. I'll keep Okay, let's take a look at Bayonets draw draw Okay, as per sentinel is very good. Yeah, this is looking great actually give me one land we got it okay. Yeah, turn one as per sentinel will give us so much value. So this is definitely a keep even without the land we still keep it.

[2:53] I think it's worth it. So looking at the game we are kind of a late game deck. But we are staring down two really aggressive opponents in Edgar and Bello. Another problem is that we are not going to win the late game against Sauron so we have to kind of divert these two opponents into Sauron and that's what our commander is built to do. But we need to get Bayonets out as soon as possible. Another problem with this game is that Bello for Bello the artifacts are four fours. Meanwhile Bayonets has to be out for at least a turn to gold anything that's five power or lower. Yeah, Bayonets just coming out isn't enough to gold Bello so we need to play Bayonets along with the background and keep him around for a turn.

[3:39] So that's going to be a challenge but we'll see how it goes. Keep Edgar. Land tax is great. Oh wow wow okay, this is good. I I this is already a keep. I mean we need another land, but we got the other land, but we need a white source. Now, we're fine. We're fine. This is Yeah, this is easily a keep. So, we have one drop. We have Land Tax. Yeah, we can drop Land Tax on turn two. That's no problem. And hopefully we draw something slightly earlier than turn four. A three drop perhaps. Uh that would be great. But so far this is fine. Maybe not amazing, but it's a fine hand to keep. Let's play. All right. Sorin Ooh, this is also very good.

[4:22] Yeah, this is a really sweet hand actually. I like it. Land. Pass. One moment. Already misplayed. We should play a tapped land first. Pass. Belbe, draw. Mirari Works. Land. Pass. Belbe lost his very happy about this because no one's dropped a Sol Ring yet. So, yeah. Esper Sentinel is going to get max value. Nice. Edgar draws a land. Play a swamp for a turn one with Serra's here. Let's get a vampire token. Pass. Sorin untaps. Yeah, I'm pretty sure we're going to have to play things cuz vampire is is already building and we have to keep up. So, yeah, whatever. Let Belbe draw us cards.

[5:04] Belbe draw us card and pass the turn. Belbe Yeah, it looks like we are just ignoring Esper Sentinel. Not sure if this is correct, but everyone is doing things. And also, you know, Edgar doesn't need to play mana rocks. Edgar is going to go creature into creature into creature which we can't keep up with unless we do something. So, we do that and Belbe draw us card. Wow, this is good. We just need more mana rocks. I mean, Mind Stone is excellent, but maybe Let's see if we can draw a Sol Ring or something that will propel us into a prime position to win the game. Pass. Draw. Oh, this is good.

[5:44] This is But we start off with a Lantus. Yeah, next turn we can drop cloud. And uh get some value. So this we're paying for the S percent now and we're going to attack Beloth. Seems like the obvious target now. Pass the turn. Okay, Sauron. Uh draw. Ooh, Baral. Not the best top deck, but serviceable. So why don't we play Relic of Sauron? Do we run Baral out there?

[6:25] We don't have spells to reduce costs with, but do we uh I don't think so. I think we hold. So this uh what did we pay? Uh we played this, right? Uh the relic. So then another draw for Beloth. You know what? I think we play Baral just because it's not like he's going to do too much late game anyways and uh we There are a lot of draw spells that are draw X. could be value if we get something like that. And also a blocker. Pass the turn. Bello untaps, draw. Okay, now we are going to pay the tax, four mana for Simbelmynë Here you go.

[7:10] And we're going to exile Coat of Arms because this is not something we will use anytime soon. And hopefully this stays and we can have a wonderful mid Hopefully this can stick around and our turn five and six will be value into value into value. Looking forward to that. So we try to go for an early Beloth, but we do need to set up a few things like Champion's Helm. Mirage Mirror is sweet, but what can we use it for right now? Not much, right now. Much. So, let's Yeah, play a land, play a champion's Pass the turn.

[7:57] Edgar, let's trigger Lantax. Why not? We don't want to top deck too many basics. Let's send a message to the Okay, turns out we don't have a lot of basics in the deck. So, I will just search for one. Maybe leave one or two in the deck just in case something comes up that requires basic searching. Like fable passage, for example. Okay, draw. So, we are going to play a land. We're going to play collab. We've run out of empire tokens, so this will do. And we're going to keep attacking Beloth. Seems correct.

[8:37] Attack. Attack. And meanwhile, we are going to mark our vampire here. I guess this one cuz it can be a chump So, let's mark this vampire with collab. later we'll get some value. Pass. Sauron is feeling great. This is turn We have seven mana and we are at 40 We just need some gas. Okay, this is gas. Explosive iteration. Let's play a land. Not yet. Maybe we play a land. We'll see what land we get with the iteration. So, we might as well use the relic. Let's use the relic for explosive We look at two cards, uh three cards. Chaos warp.

[9:19] Draw spell. And we are we are cooking. So, I think we put Oath of Tomorrow into Do we cast chaos warp this turn? Don't see much of a target. So, I think we take transpose. And Chaos Warp can go on the bottom. This might be very greedy, but we again we are off to a pretty good start. Oh, meanwhile Belzenlok draws a card. There you go. And we are going to transpose, I suppose. Yeah, we haven't played a land yet, so lose a life, draw a card, then discard a I think we can discard a land here.

[10:06] We don't really need the budget Golgari. Meanwhile, we create a token. Okay, we create a wizard token and yeah, play a land and might as well drop another And now we pass the turn. Oh, looks like we untapped with Semblance Anvil. That is very good. Draw, okay. Yeah, see these are just free. So, first we are going to drop a 1 2 3 three mana. Do we pay the extra? I want to say no because we are going to chain this into this into more things, so yeah, I think we're using that mana. And Belzenlok already have enough cards, I'm we then draw two cards.

[10:52] Is there anything to remove? I guess we can remove the Esper Sentinel, but once it's like it's not my problem anymore. they've drawn five, six cards already and we should just develop our own board at this point. Again, this mindset might not be right. We should take responsibility and do the right thing but we don't. Draw one, And look at that, we got rewarded kind of. We play this for free. 1 2 3 Eternity Elevator. Three mana four.

[11:32] Mirrorworks. And I think we pass. Yeah, we can play Mox Diamond. We don't really need to. The difference is this doesn't attack. Meanwhile, all of these can attack next turn. So and we will play a land and pass. Bayloff untaps. It's sweet we drew so many cards, but most of them are lands. That's annoying. So we are going to play an Opal Palace. Then we drop the Noble Heritage. Is that Yeah, let's set up for Bayloff.

[12:18] Meanwhile, we have three mana in case we need to counter something. Next turn we can Bayloff and then protect it with Talents Gate. And that That sounds good so that it will almost guarantee to survive and we will have a six power Bayloff. And we're at 38 life. We're not under too much immediate pressure. Although I think we might have forgot to take uh we forgot to take two damage. Right? Cuz we got attacked twice. So we should actually be at 36. My apologies. But yeah, this is the turn. Can we equip? Plus one to equip. Yeah, sure. As a blocker, right? Let's equip our Esper Sentinel because we don't need that extra mana.

[12:58] And now it's a 3/3. No hexproof because it's not legendary, but Now we can block somethings. Pass the turn. End of turn, we are going to sacrifice this vampire with Viscera Seer. So it becomes a 4/3. Uh wings, I guess. Vampire D Vampire And we draw a card. And we scry one. Ooh, Vanquisher's Banner is good. We want that. Let's keep it. Okay, on top. Draw. Play a land. Which land do we play? Just a mountain. Now, I guess we keep attacking, but who? On this board, actually, I think Sauron is stronger.

[13:40] It's hard to say. Sauron has three cards in hand, but uh I guess we can try to split it. So, 4 3 into Beloth while this vampire and this vampire will attack Sauron. Yeah, it's not that much damage. More importantly, we are marking this And for Sauron, we are going to block because they can sack anyways. Might as well block. Or uh actually, let's let's prevent two damage rather than one. So, let's block And uh Beloth doesn't block. So, here we take one. Beloth takes 1 2 3 4. Wasn't the best split attack, probably, but oh, well.

[14:23] We are vampires. We are done. land for a Ange. Ange, Falkenrath. And we get a token. You can see my art getting sloppier and sloppier. Pass. Okay, Sauron again is feeling excellent about this board. We draw for Smari Command. I think the play here is just to hold the fort and do a big pull from tomorrow. And uh yeah, take over the game with that new hand. And I want to play this as a land. I go pretty far out of my way to hit my land drops, especially in a control deck where we are never short on cards.

[15:03] I'm not sure if it's correct, but yeah, I like again playing this as a land to me seems very reasonable. Especially when we have a draw spell. Yeah, I like my land drops. So, pass the Okay, untap with Beloth. Cloud Key. Not what we need right now. So, as bellow here, I'm thinking this is our chance. Our the artifact deck is explosive, but it's also very vulnerable. And yeah, this board shouldn't stick for long. So, what we should do now is we should do as much damage as possible. But, at the same time with Sauron having all this mana open I want to attack Sauron.

[15:45] Sauron is clearly ahead. But, I think we split the damage. Yeah, we try to split the damage a little bit so that Sauron doesn't kill Bello or wipe our board. Like, they might have a cycle on the grip or something. Yeah, what the weakness with Bello is that Bello, the moment Bello dies, our entire attack falls apart. Uh we do have a lot of protection spells, but we didn't draw let's cast Bello. Just three mana. And we go into combat. Unfortunately, I think we have to send two uh to Beloth and one at Sauron. We want to draw cards. And Beloth will not block.

[16:26] Yeah, we don't want to lose anything. Not our S percent no. This can still give us value, especially now that it's a 3-3. So, we take eight damage. Ouch, that hurts. We need Beloth down ASAP. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8. Meanwhile, this attack makes it so Sauron really doesn't want to use a removal on Bello. Also, because paying three for this, we lose our pull for So, I do we block it? Yeah, I think this wizard doesn't do that much, so we'll block to save four life. I think it's worth it. So, in the end, Bello draws two cards.

[17:06] two lands. Okay, we can play a land normally. Unfortunately, we didn't get more artifacts. Actually, I want to play Talion's Gate now. I was thinking activating Talion Gates to ramp, but ramp is not our problem. Our problem is card draw. So, I want to play Talion Gates now to save the mana for War Room. Play it. We're going to exile Belorth. Not exile. We're going to face up Belorth to protect him for a turn. And that's our turn. Pass. Untap. Yeah, we are feeling the pressure. But, I think we can cast our commander now, right? Play a land. We are one mana short of doing commander and this.

[17:47] Also, we don't get to equip. So, I'm tempted to say we don't don't play this land and we Talion Gates our commander. Next turn, we can potentially take a lot of damage actually. So, hmm this is difficult. So, we want 5 + 1 + 2 mana. We want eight mana. Right now, we have 1 2 3 4 5 with a land drop, six I'm thinking how about we play a land and just pass. Cuz if we do that, we can hold up Talion Gates, which can remove something. We can which can remove uh Belorth for a turn.

[18:29] And also ramp us to eight mana next turn. Then, we can have Belorth and Cuz at the same time, you know, we see Sauron with a lot of mana. If we cast Belorth now, it might get countered. And if Belorth gets countered, we are very screwed. So, I'm thinking we play it safe. The vampire will hurt, and we might have to go down to like 15 life or something. And meanwhile, Belorth might have a protection spell, but we have to try to play to our outs, right? And I don't think running Belorth out there is correct here. So, we play a land. We can hold a counter spell again, in case we need to counter something, but I doubt it. So, yeah, we pass the turn. At a turn, we'll sacrifice a vampire token. Okay, another vampire demon.

[19:09] Also, I forgot they have flying, which is very strong. We draw a card for the sacrifice. Oh, this is very good. And we describe one. Mhm, we no longer need the Bloodtracker, Bloodtracker is also good, actually. Maybe we keep both. All right. What's on top? Draw. Play a land. Okay, the question is, do we play Champion first or Vanquisher Banner first? Champion will draw us a lot of cards. Six cards. Also, I forgot something. There was an engine trigger when I sacrificed the vampire. So, here's our blood token. Yeah, I'm thinking we Vanquisher Banner first because we can't expect to keep the sport around and we want to do as much damage as possible while we have a board.

[19:55] Even if we draw 12 cards, we have five lands and we're not going to rebuild very quickly. So, we'll take a few turns to rebuild. Yeah, but for now we want to maximize we want to maximize damage. So, let's drop the Vanquisher Banner. Bayezid off draws a card. And let's go into combat. We want to poke Sorin. We want to poke Sorin because look at all this mana. But, like what Bello's doing, we want to split it so that there's a higher chance that Sorin will let our attack through. So, unfortunately, Bayezid is once again our punching bag. Okay, so we're going to send one demon here, one demon this way, and engine this way. Meanwhile, oh, we can attack Bello. It's a free attack, why not?

[20:36] So, one, two, three, four. Bayezid, Bello. Bello is kind of our friend, but mhm, let's get some damage in. It's not too much. Who needs blockers? We're going to mark this vampire. Oh, also I forgot our vampire plus two plus two. So, I'll change that a little bit. This is a 3-3. We can attack Bayezid. No problem. Okay, and this is the attack Sorin doesn't block. Sorin also doesn't want to use a removal. Take 10. A little bit risky, but I think we're fine. Meanwhile, Balor has nothing, so Balor's going to take five. Belorth takes another five. Ouch. Not the worst. Honestly, not the worst scenario.

[21:18] That's our turn. Pass. Okay, we've been setting up for this moment. Let's do it. Any chance of a counter spell? Not really. We're not too worried about that. 1 2 3 4 We have eight mana plus the one reduction here, so we can pull for not uh No, seven. Yes. Now, Vandalblast Rhystic Study. Might be our last time playing this. I don't know. I've heard rumors. 4 5 6 Shot 7 8. Okay, this is a solid hand. We are going to untap, draw. Thunderous Ignition. This is for late game.

[21:58] yo, this looks good. Okay, first question, do we Vandalblast? It's going to cost us four mana. It ruins Balor and hurts Belorth, but we're still going to die to Edgar. Nothing in our hand actually really stops Edgar. That's a problem. What if we play our commander? 1 2 3 4 5 6 After our commander, we have three mana It will allow us to cast these two. Pers Smarty Command. Yeah, we can get some combination of There's no time for Rhystic Study on this board, but yeah, with a few blockers, things might get better. Or we just hold all these responses because everything is reduced by one, so we can actually Yeah, we can use all four, I believe.

[22:44] But none of these are great at stopping this army. So, I think we cast Sauron. Yes. So, Sauron Don't forget to play Let's pay mana. Six. Like this. And yeah, then we this uh we play a land and go to discard. I think it's too late for Mystic Study. I think Shark Typhoon is too slow with this hand. It's a win condition. Okay, I think Signet can go. This doesn't do And and let's drop Solemn Divination for Mystic Study. It's a bit greedy, but I think with what we have in hand we can deal with this board.

[23:26] So then we can Mystic Study and get more value for the next round of control. Pass. Hollow at the end of turn we are going to tap. Uh lose two life, draw card. We got a Blasphemous Act. Untap, Hollow comes back and we draw for turn. Urza's Workshop. That's not what we need right now. It is not. So I think we just enter combat. Yeah, let's go. Declare combat. We will send This time I'm thinking two into Sauron. No, Sauron can block. Do we send everything into Sauron? If we do, Hollow probably doesn't live.

[24:08] We still want to draw cards. Yeah, this hand is not enough for card draw. This hand is not going to do enough. We might even attack and then Blasphemous Act ourself. Because then we can wipe all of this and hopefully Sauron dies. Yeah, this might be this might be the correct play, but for now we need to attack. So I think it's all three into Baloth, unfortunately. Yeah, this is kind of expected. You're just bullying me at this point. And Baloth over here is like, "What? Why?" Sauron is going to take over the game. You're just being greedy trying to draw cards. And I'm playing with myself, but I'm getting salty over here. So at least yeah, fortunately we do have this.

[24:48] So we are going to pay four mana to drop the Talisman Gate. Activate. And yeah, hoping to phase out Hollow. And no one has response to that, right? Seems like it. So, Belbe is phased out and the attack fizzles. This is where I think it's a good idea to Blasphemous Act cuz we have nothing. We cannot continue to build the board. Belbe is protected. So, yeah, let's try Let's pay one red for Blasphemous Act. And we're not going to pay three extra, I think. Yeah, so Belbe can draw a card. Okay, so this is on the stack. We amass work one Belbe.

[25:29] We're actually very happy with this. No responses. Edgar is not happy with this, but it's to be expected. Now, the question is do we sack our board? We don't touch this, but we can sack a few things to scry, but not too many there's a chance that the Blasphemous Act will get countered. Actually, I'm thinking we don't sack anything cuz everything here is really good. Scrying one is nice, but with what we have in hand, we don't need the scry just pass priority. Okay, Sorin is in a tough spot. Maybe we shouldn't have cast Confounding Riddle won't even do it.

[26:11] So, do we just pass? Do we just let it happen? Yeah, I think we are still in a decent position and we can untap with a Vandalblast and the board is clear. And then we can plop down a Mystic Study. So, that's a decent board. Just unfortunately, yeah, the Sorin dies for nothing. But, we can't know. Okay. Nothing dies here. Genius play. As for Sentinel, if we win this game, it's all because of this. We drew what? Seven cards from this and everything dies. Except we get a Vampire Demon that sticks around. Draw a card. Pass. Okay, we continue our turn with Belbe. Do we play anything? I still think no.

[26:51] I mean, we play a land, we play not even the workshop, just a regular land. Now, we're going to activate War Room because because nothing in our hand can pose a threat. These are rebuild pieces. So, we pass the turn and just activate War Room. Okay, Beloth at the end of turn, we have three mana. We are going to Valakut Awakening. We're going to drop all these lands. Holy, 1 2 Okay, just three, but three lands uh Blackblade? Yeah, we can drop that. We do want the Sheltering Light as So, we're dropping I don't think we have time to play this Mana Rock. Although, this is a nice draw spell, though. So, Office Scroll work will keep. And yeah, we will ship four and draw Swords protection.

[27:38] Ultimate magic is very good. Four Okay, this is a good five. Now, we didn't get a land, though, unfortunately. That might have been a small mistake. Should have kept one land. We got the land. I am literally John Finkel. Okay. Play a land. Okay, so we have the land and we are going to play our commander. 1 2 3 4 5. Oh, well, not bad, though. Let's keep red up like this. Okay, commander on the stack. Now, Sauron knows how strong Beloth is once it So, we want to deal with it and we know that they have a lot of protection So, I think we're going to try Confounding Riddle just to snipe it from stack because once it hits, yeah, I don't think we can I mean, we can remove it, but it will be a lot of work.

[28:27] So, let's try that. Confounding Riddle. Three mana. Counter it unless they pay four. They only have three mana. Uh this is very annoying. I think we will have counter that. Yeah, we cannot have our commander countered. So, Tibalt's Okay. Yeah, we can stop that. So, let's roll 1 2 uh D6 yeah, for the three. So that would be three. So we mill three cards and get a free spell. One two Let's get our spell. March of the swirling mist. That's a whiff. Yeah, so we'll just put them on the bottom. Okay, our commander does resolve. Also, we are supposed to trigger noble heritage.

[29:08] So we put two counters on the Bayloff. Meanwhile, our opponents get to decide if they want to take the deal or not. So how this works is if there's a chance that you might attack Bayloff or you you want to do it, then you don't take it. But if you're golded anyways or if you don't intend to attack Bayloff, then it's fine. So Edgar here I don't think takes the deal and no one else has creatures. So that happens and now we have to figure out do we equip champion's helm or do we save mana for one of these? Apostle's blessing or shelter in light? And I'm thinking champion's helm because we need a big Bayloff. Otherwise, none of these is golded. Not even this demon is golded. Okay, let's equip and hope for the best.

[29:49] Pass the turn. Oh, we have to discard. Discard shelter and disrupt the quorum. This really isn't great on this board against We need our commander. Pass. On top, draw. Okay, we have a decent hand. We are going to just rebuild. Yeah, play a land and rebuild. Start with scion of opulence. Get a vampire. Draw a card. Put this. Yeah, I still think we cast So Yahenni. Three mana. Uh make a vampire. Draw a card. This is our hand.

[30:29] Now Yahenni can attack. It's got haste. It's a three So I think we go for it. It is golded, so let's send it into And we pass the turn. Oh, we get a treasure, don't we? And we pass the turn. Sauron untaps, draw. Good land. Yeah, the vampires rebuild pretty quickly. I mean, what what what is this? They have another 15 damage on board already. If we vandalblast, 1 2 3 4 5, we have five mana open. We still have mana for No, we don't. Oh, we can cycle Shark And we can reality shift something?

[31:10] Yeah, but we're we're fighting a losing battle if we do Is it time for Sauron again? I'm tempted to do Sauron again because we really want to set up for this Chandra's Ignition. And if we Sauron 1 2 3 4 5 6 7, sorry. That's eight mana. Yeah, this makes two. If we do this and tap properly, I guess. Uh if we do this, then we will have two mana open, right? Two mana open. And with these two mana we can reality shift and deadly relic. So, we have two removals if Sauron's out. And it's not going to die again, Sauron is pretty difficult to kill. So, let's try it again. Yeah. I really want to vandalblast, but it seems like Bello is kind of running out of gas.

[31:56] let's not Sauron and these for commander tax. Pass the turn. Bello, we are going to draw with war room another mana rock. Hmm. Bello comes back. Everything is online. Stonespeaker Crystal. You sure? Yeah, we can get two of them. That's not bad. So, let's pay four mana. Okay, now we use the workshop. So, 1 2 3 1 2 3 4 for the Stonespeaker Crystal. And we get two copies of it because of Mirrorworks. And I guess we enter combat to try to draw some cards. And entering combat, huh, there's the orc here. But entering combat, I feel like we can only attack Sauron.

[32:39] Is that right? Yeah, we have to attack Sauron, right? There's no other target. We are golden. Yeah, we can also attack the vampires, but they have four blockers. So, I think we just try Yeah, try to do it to Sauron. So, everyone attack into Sauron. And maybe we hold a few back just to lower the threat a little bit. And also, we want to be able to winding canyons our bellow in next turn if he dies. Winding canyon cost this much and then 1 2 3 4 5 6 mana. That's not enough. Okay, let's just send three things in and hopefully Sauron will let it happen. Sauron sitting at 25 life will not let it happen. So, we have these two for a reality shift targeting bellow.

[33:23] At this point, I think hmm I don't think we dig. I think we just cuz we can try to dig for a protection spell, but the chance is not very high. So, we just let it happen. Bellow dies or bellow gets exiled. And we get to manifest, right? This better not be a protection spell. It is not. Good. And it's unfortunate, but we didn't draw our protection spell for this game. Like we had a sweet start, but protection spell is so important in this deck cuz it it's so bellow dependent. Okay, we passed the turn. Bayonetta here is very very happy with what just happened in the last two turns.

[34:05] We are going to untap, we're going to do the deal. Noble heritage happens. Do you guys take it? Edgar at this point, I think we take it. We don't have any way to deal with Bayonetta and everything is golden anyways. If we place say two counters here, it is this one at least is no longer golden. Yeah, but it's also not attacking Bayonetta because Bayonetta is huge. So, maybe we put it onto our indestructible man or the one that's potentially indestructible. Okay, so Sauron we don't have any desire to attack Beloth, but we do plan to use Chandra's ignition. And if we take the deal, Beloth the player will not take any damage, will not lose life, but Beloth Can we kill Beloth?

[34:50] Beloth is at five night 11 toughness. We don't have enough to kill Beloth Although if we put two counters on to and then we use it with Vandalblast. I guess that could work. Okay. Yeah, let's let's put two counters on to Sauron cuz I don't think the army is going to grow fast enough. Okay, and Bello doesn't have a creature. So we play our turn, draw. Another protection spell, excellent. Protection, protection, more protection. And with this board, I don't think we need to do anything. We can just attack people. Who do we attack? We want to make some treasures. I think putting I we want to do some commander damage, and right now Bello is open.

[35:36] Yeah, we want to do some damage. I mean getting treasure is nice, forcing them to jump block, but yeah, let's do some damage. So eight damage into Bello. And for the turn, can we afford to compass? See, one, two, three, four, five mana to compass to get a land? No, I don't think that's a good idea. I think we just play it. It becomes a land, and then we play in all fates school. Ultimate holy magic is very nice when you foretell it, but right now we don't need to because it's very difficult to kill Beloth, but Beloth can die to an edict effect, which is possible. So I think what we do here is this will turn into a land.

[36:19] So we foretell this. Yeah, if Beloth dies, at least we have a fog. But then we can only cast one of these, not both. So, I think we hold the scroll for now. So, I think we save the compass. We don't play it just yet. We want to have our mana open. So, let's tap two to foretell this. Ultimate magic holy. Foretell we can use a book. Very clear. And then we have four mana for protection and stuff. Pass the turn. Okay, vampires we untap with everything. We want to attack Baylo, but we cannot. Oh, and I forgot to amass orc here. This should be on two. And vampires we drew, we play a land.

[37:00] And is this the turn for Edgar? champion of the dusk. If we Edgar, we are actually just helping Baylo. But we do need to do damage. If we just keep doing this, we are going to lose the late game. So, we have to Yeah, I think we have to get some action. And this is a lot of damage I don't want to waste. let's pay 1 2 3 4 5 6 for Edgar. Edgar is on the stack. No responses from And we have to declare combat. Yeah, Sauron is very worried. Well, meanwhile we amass one, but we are very worried because they're golden.

[37:43] So, I think we have to deadly relic the Edgar. Yeah, let's do that. Deadly relic happens and oh, we do we do still draw one card. So, that's that. And let's enter combat. Sauron is tapped out. So, our demons can go at Sauron. Oh, we just have one demon. Sauron is tapped out, so the demon can go at Sauron and everything else will just be blocked, right? Are we more scared of Sauron or Bello? I honestly honestly I think it's kind of even. But Sauron is difficult to get through. So, looks like we'll have to do And let's leave a blocker for once.

[38:26] Yeah, this is not too much damage anymore now that Edgar's gone. So we attack, attack. No blocks. Sauron takes five. Belo takes a lot more. And why not let's play a blocker. Although this can't block this interest tapped. We want to get speed into the game for maximum confusion. So we get another vampire token and one speed. Yeah, let's clean this up a little bit. Such a mess. Okay, solid turn. Meanwhile Sauron analyzes one more. We untap with 20 life. That's That's fine. We're happy with that. We draw. So do we carry out our plan to first vandal blast and then Chandra's ignition.

[39:07] Problem is we are not guaranteed to kill Belo. Belo has protection. And the board currently is not super scary for us. We have two blockers. In a pinch we can also block with shark typhoon. So maybe we just vandal blast. Yeah, and we can play a land and hold dig through time. Vandal blast. 1 2 3 4 5. Oh, in a pinch cactus preserve can also be a 6 6 So five mana, vandal blast on the stack. Belo's been expecting this. Yeah. Honestly we're surprised it took this long. But what we're going to do is we first try to draw card with war room.

[39:51] This So we're at 11 life. Hmm. Yeah, we still need to draw. Draw card. And then we are going to crack the Stone Speaker Crystal to exile all of our opponent's Sauron we have to think about do we dig through time? If we don't then we won't be able to. I'm thinking we do. Yeah, we need to see what we can get, what answers we can get. Cuz our hand isn't very good right now. So, Dig Through Time, exiling delving six things, looking at top seven cards. Free counter spell, Oh, boy.

[40:36] Cyclonic Rift. Yeah, I think it's Cyclonic Rift and our free counter spell, Force of Negation. Okay, so then we exile the rest of our No more graveyard. No more graveyard. Bello has no more responses. Beloth, do we have a response to Vandalblast? I'm tempted to do this, Blacksmith's Skill. Yeah, I think it's worth it. So, let's do that to protect our Champion's Helm. No responses. happens. Everything else gets blown up. So, this is gone. We lose all this. Holy.

[41:16] And this. And this. Rough. And Beloth also loses a few things here and here. Not the worst outcome. Okay, and Work Army is golded, so we have to send this into Yeah, there's no point attacking vampires, so I guess we send it into Bello. We've messed with them enough, I'm sure. The relationship isn't too good over here. So, we attack Bello. So, Bello takes four. Pass the turn. Bello untaps. Return Ugin.

[41:58] Sorry, this is exiled. Uh does this do anything? Not really. Yeah, I think we're just dead. I guess Ugin can make a blocker. Sure, we have two blockers. Let's hold the fort. So, six mana. Ugin will plus becomes a two-two. It's a stone calendar. Okay, remember this is a Uh we'll use Mishra's Workshop. One mana. I'll use one mana on Cloud Key naming But our artifacts are free anyways.

[42:39] So, let's not do the Cloud Key. Let's just cast these two for free. The two diamonds and play a land. And pass the turn. Okay, Bayaloth untaps. We didn't even have to cast This is a very good sign. We'll use the Cure Cube to make a token. Let's get a sad Kobold cuz he knows he's a chump blocker. Okay, Bayaloth untaps. And Noble Heritage triggers. Bayaloth goes to 10 power. the hacker doesn't want to take the deal I know everything is golden, but we have to try to find a way to kill Bayaloth. Right, with edict or whatever.

[43:20] Otherwise, we are not winning the game. Or maybe maybe we just kill Sauron and then hope to raise Bayaloth. That's another possibility. Honestly, I think that might be more feasible than trying to kill the creature. Yeah. Okay, I changed my mind. I'm going to put two more counters onto the Henny and make the deal with Bayaloth. Meanwhile, Sauron says, "Sure, why not? Let's do it." And also, I should remember to amass orc. We amassed three here. My apologies from Belos's turn. Always a little bit behind here. We have our own time zone for the orc. Okay, so we draw.

[44:01] Oh, we drew an onto inversion. Mhm. One, two, three, four, five. Unfortunately, we lost our mana rocks. Otherwise, we could have cleared the board while Bay off, kind of. So, with the board as is, I think we play a Mirage Mirror and pass. Yeah, Mirage Mirror is nutty. So, let's do that. 1 2 3. Do we play the compass? I want to say no because I want to hold up Kira-Key. The only way for Bay off to die now really is Edict because remember what we have here.

[44:43] So, we want to be prepared for all kinds of situations, I guess. So, let's attack with Bay off to force a And I think the target we should attack is Sauron. The Sauron is a 10/9 with mana open. Doesn't feel safe. Maybe we just attack to get a treasure. No, we want Edgar to go all in at Sauron. So, we attack Bello to get a treasure. Now, let's bully the Bello. Attack Bello. Bello blocks with Goes to hand. And we get a treasure. Yeah, our problem here is we don't have reliable way to end the game.

[45:26] But, currently, I think this board is But, at the moment, we are okay with this board staying as is. And the Mirage Mirror can do some ridiculous stuff. I'm not sure what, but we'll find something to do with it. Edgar untaps. Okay, I want to play a Crossway Troublemakers. 1 2 3 4 5 6. Because then we can gain a bunch of life. Which is not super relevant cuz Bay off kills by commander damage. But, it also draws us cards. We can Uh do we have a side outlet? Oh, we do. Yes, Yahenni.

[46:07] Yes. So, we can draw a lot of cards if we need to. But, for now we have to attack. Yeah, I think we just try to kill two opponents. So, we are going to Yeah, Belbe seems pretty dead. So, we are going to do the bare minimum. and tokens at Belbe. Gas, Guzzler, too. So, this will be five attackers. Belbe can block one, but it will still be five damage. So, this kills the And these two at at Sauron. Oh, and we have one more token to block with. Okay, this is our Uh Belbe will block the Scion of Opulence.

[46:50] Seems reasonable. And Edgar, we are going to sacrifice the Scion so that the blocker doesn't die and Belbe doesn't get an extra treasure. Cuz Belbe is dead anyways. Right? So, we sacrifice the Scion. Then what happens is we uh this is indestructible now. Yahenni, and we get to draw a card and we lose LP to life, draw a card. Okay, another land. Uh meanwhile, Sauron, we are being attacked by these two. Sauron can block this. We can take three. And we don't need to use anything. Yeah, we can hold this and we can rift after, right?

[47:32] So, we block Yahenni and we take Meanwhile, a lot of life linking plus six, 11, plus four, 15 life. And yeah, from that Belbe profits a little bit. Hey, Edgar passes the turn. Sauron at the end of turn doesn't do anything. We un Maybe we cycle this land. Cycle the land. Draw a card. We are cooking. We got the One Ring.

[48:12] Sweet. Draw for turn. Arcane Denial. Yeah, I think we Chandra's Ignition and then One Ring. And hold a counter spell. Or is Cyclonic Rift better? No, then we don't have mana for One Ring. let's get the ring out. We draw a card. That's a land. Sure, we'll play it as a land because then we also have Cyclonic Rift. Now, do we prefer Ignition? I don't think so because it doesn't kill Yahenni, doesn't kill Beläf.

[48:55] So, yeah, we are going to ring and rift. The ultimate control play. Unfortunately, we took the deal so we cannot attack Beläf, but why not? Let's Edgar will block. Edgar will block the Gain one life. Oh, whoops. And take this seven damage. The vampire dies, we draw a card, lose two life. Meanwhile, Beläf gets one more treasure. Okay, Sauron passed the turn. At the end of turn, we are going to use the Mirage Mirror to copy the One Ring.

[49:36] Sauron, do we allow that? Yeah, I think now is too early to rift, so let's wait. We'll draw a card with the One Ring. The land on top. Once again, time for deals. Placing two counters here. For vampires, yeah, I don't think there's any point. Let's not do it. And Sauron also doesn't want to do it because we can potentially hurt Belorth a lot. So, no one's taking it. And now we draw for turn. We drew the Ironcrag. We play a land. Now, is this the turn for Undue Inversion? We can pay 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and we can use this to protect our but knowing that Sauron has so much mana up, I feel like this is not going to fire.

[50:30] I feel like this will be disrupted. So, I think we just pass and see. Hopefully, Edgar gets the job done. But, let's play a compass. And uh and I think that's fine. We are we're okay with passing here. And sure, let's play the Ironcrag as Tap a little bit better. We can't attack Sauron, so we send Belorth into Edgar. Edgar takes 12 commander damage. The compass wants to transform. Sauron, do we respond to the I think it's fine if we do that now.

[51:15] Yeah, we are honestly at this point not that worried about Edgar. We are mostly worried about Belorth. And we still have a counter spell back up. So, let's do it now. Cyclonic Rift. Oh, and also a mass works two more. Cyclonic Rift on the stack. Belorth says, "No, this is not good." How do we respond? Do we try to kill Sauron? Okay, let's see. So, first we crack two treasures. This will turn into the One and we are going to use it. Draw two cards. None of these will save us. So, we are going to Swords to Plowshares the Sauron.

[52:01] Sacrificing our One Ring. Sauron, do we counter it? I think we do because we're potentially presenting lethal against that one. yeah, let's counter it. The The The Mystic Study. And Force of Negation. Oh, yeah. This is sacrificed anyways because it's part of the cost. And Swords is countered. And it looks like yeah, we float mana. It looks like we have nothing to do, so we float mana. Returns to hand.

[52:41] Returns to hand. And everything else back to hand. And we have to discard. Oh, that was disgusting, Sauron. Let's first go to the vampires. So, we have a chance to respond. Do we respond? Yeah, let's sack the tokens at least. Sack sack sack. Sack four tokens. Uh draw Okay, one at a time. Draw. That's good. One more. Let's do one more. And this Reeca gives us a lot more confidence because we can make Sauron sack creature, so we can draw one more.

[53:27] Solid. And everything else returns to Okay, now it's time for Baloth to end the turn with this card. Now, we do have two floating mana, but this is our end step, so we can make a cobalt. But, how much does this cost? This costs three mana, so no. We are not making a cobalt. We're just going to discard down, so we lose two protection spells and uh compass, I guess. Pass the turn. Edgar Markov, we will rebuild. We will always rebuild. Draw. Play a land into a Sol Ring. And we've got Gas Guzzler. We've got Falkenrath Pit We'll make the tokens later.

[54:09] But most importantly, we have Henrika. We get three tokens here and amass works three. This is now at 13. And uh we don't have haste, but we have this card. Order of the Sacred Dusk costs six mana, but with convoke, so we can pay three four five six That's right. Eight mana. Oh, okay, we'll do do it like this. Eight. And this enters. One more amass, one more vampire. Now, as we enter combat, we're going to trigger Henrika to make each player sacrifice a creature.

[54:53] I will sacrifice this ugly vampire to save the pretty ones. And Sorin sacrifices oof, that's tricky. I think we sacrifice the army, honestly. Yeah, sack the army. He cannot attack Sorin, so we'll send this into Beloth. And how big is it? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 exalted, so 12 damage. Now, Beloth has to think about this. Do we fog? We do have some life gain here, but honestly, I think we fog and then onto inversion. Sorin is scary, but it can't do Can Sorin do 20 damage to us? Also possible. Um you know what? We are not dead. Let's take it.

[55:33] 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12. And we gain 12 life, Edgar. Half a turn. Speed two. Actually, our speed should be probably four by now. Yeah, I'm pretty sure we are at speed four. So, I keep forgetting that speed that it doesn't matter if the Gasguzzler is on the field. Speed just grows on its own. yeah, speed four. Max speed. Sauron Take your damage, but we are going to draw immediately. Draw two. Yeah, I think we're doing pretty well Let's play a different land. Let's play But, now we can just attack into Baloth and see what happens, right?

[56:20] So, Sauron attacking to Baloth. Baloth is going to use our Fortold card. Ultimate magic. Holy. And, Sauron will send an Arcane Denial. And, Baloth is dead. Yeah, I think we messed up there. Should have done this to prevent the 12 damage, but I don't think it matters too much. We are not going to be able to keep up. Yeah, I don't think we can keep up with this. Yeah, that rift was brutal. We needed to Furious Protection there. But, yeah. Okay, let's pack it up. And, meanwhile, we are going to press on with our advantage.

[57:01] We should have amassed Orc one here, but it doesn't matter cuz we are going to Thunder's Ignition, right? One, two, three, four. And, we still have a blocker here in Cactus Preserve. Yeah, our our hand is a little bit empty at this moment, but I think we're fine. So, let's do 10 damage to everything using Sauron. Edgar says, Okay, it happens. Everything is dead. And we take ten. Okay, Sauron passed the turn. Oh, also Edgar should have discarded last turn. Uh I I guess land land Yeah, my apologies.

[57:45] One more. Yeah, now Edgar untaps. Sauron is at 15 without too much going Just a Sauron. Ooh, we got Queen Spey Okay, that's something that's something. So, we Can we afford to pay more life? I'm sure we Yeah, paying life is fine. Paying life is fine. God was trying. Paladin 1 2 3 4 5 Vampire token and a mass orc. Now, the Paladin will bring back a vampire, which will be order of Oh, is it Henrika? Unfortunately, they amassed orc.

[58:25] So, do we have a way to kill the orc? I don't think so. So, let's take the order Order of the sacred dusk. And let's also play a crossway troublemakers. Why not? It's a good card. Make a token, a mass orc two. So, let's send the Paladin in 1 2 3 4 5 uh exalted five? Yes. No, exalted four, sorry. And it's a 99. Yeah, we have to block. Sauron has to block and gain nine. Pass the turn. Okay, at the end of turn, Sauron, do we do anything?

[59:05] I guess we can amass. Sure, let's amass orcs X. X is going to be just one. It's over here. And we untap. Lose two life. Yeah, let's draw more. 1 Yeah, I think Shark Typhoon will get us Right, let's play a land. Let's play a 1 2 3 4 Shark Typhoon And we have counter spell, we have a copy spell giving double strike to something relevant and behold the multiverse.

[59:46] Do we foretell? I guess we can foretell that. Sure, foretell. Behold the multiverse. What can possibly go wrong? And Sauron should attack. Should we attack? Yeah, let's block. If we attack, we're just giving them one more card. Pass the turn. Edgar untaps. Anguish on making. See, I'm thinking should we So, I'm thinking should we try to kill Sauron? There's no legend we can sack. Maybe not. Maybe not. Uh we should just attack all in, I'm Is Edgar a good idea? Edgar 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 And Queen's Bay will return something.

[1:00:32] What can we return that's really good? Nothing too crazy. Enrica? Falconrath? Okay, let's try to draw some Five mana Champion of the Dusk. If it resolves, we could draw 1 2 3 4 5 6 6 cards. Now, Sauron, do we do something about that? We can try. To dig for something? Yeah, let's dig a little bit. We're doing it anyways because we need to make a shark. So, let's do this. Behold the multiverse. Scry two. Nope. Bottom, bottom. Draw two.

[1:01:13] Oops. A masked orc from the and we might be We might be screwed. And here, Edgar, we draw six lose six. 1 2 3 4 5 6 Mirror entity is sweet. Does that win us the game? We cast it. We can turn our our whole board into 3/3s. Not quite. Next turn, it will, but not this turn. So, with what we have here I'm tempted to drop Yahenni. That will make us a vampire.

[1:01:54] And now we need to separate what can attack and what cannot attack. These ones can attack. 3 4 5 Okay, and I guess we send them in. Yeah, we are not afraid of dying. Go, go, go. Attack, attack, attack. And Queen's Blade Paladin triggers. We'll bring back Scion of Opulence. The board is actually such a mess. Let's widen this a little bit. Okay, so this is the front line. And everything else back here I think the Scion is actually very good here.

[1:02:38] So, the vampires have lifelink. Oh, and we lose three life. So, Sorin is going to block this one, Queen's Blade Paladin. And the orc, which should be a 3/3 now, will block Oh, sorry. Yahenni is also attacking cuz haste. So, this will be And the flying fish will block a 5/5 jump block. Sure, we'll block a 5/5. So, that we take six seven damage. Oh, that hurts. Holy Yeah, seven damage.

[1:03:18] And meanwhile, the life the vampires will link 19 life. This will die. We make a treasure. Actually, the hand will sack something to protect itself. We link one less life, they lose one less life. The shark dies. The hand will get a counter. And that's the combat. We discard and pass. Okay, things are rough. We on top. We lose three life. We have one turn to kill the vampires. I don't think we can. It's possible with Sauron commander damage, but uh not sure how we're going to do it.

[1:04:05] Blasphemous Act. Um How's that going to save us? there's always the wandering with Minamo. So, we're going to draw one, two, three, four, and we're going to Minamo. We're going to Minamo the wandering and draw five. We drew the Mount Doom. But, we played a land already, Let's see what's in the graveyard.

[1:04:49] Not much. Ignition. Ignition is uh Psychic Rift. Okay, I think we have a game plan. So, let's play a Sol Ring first. Whoops. It's not here yet. Sol Ring. And we play uh this. Chakra meditation. we'll make some sharks, but I don't think it matters cuz we are getting back Chandra's ignition. We are going to Chandra's ignition on the Sorin. Let's see. Yeah, pay mana.

[1:05:30] 1 2 3 4 5. Maybe tap correctly. Chandra's ignition on the Sorin. we draw a card and discard a card. Draw a land, destroy discarded. Any responses? This is actually tough because we can anguish on making the Sorin, but we have to sacrifice our Yahenni. Cuz our Yahenni would live if uh, we don't do that. But I think Yeah, I think we try. We try. So, pay three for anguish on making.

[1:06:11] Um, the Sorin. Sacrificing Yahenni. And when we do that, we get a treasure. Sorin will amass orc. One more. And of course, we have a Swan Swan Song happens and That's countered. And this turns into a swan, which will And no more responses from vampires. So, this resolves. The orc dies, graveyard. Oh, also, we need to get to loot once. So, draw uh, discard a land.

[1:06:54] Here is our hand, and the board is wiped. So, the vampire takes 10 damage here. And we lose 1 2 3 4 vampires, non-token And two tokens. Uh three tokens. So, we get four treasures. Now, do we draw cards? We're at 38 life. We'll take another 10 from Sauron. Yeah, let's draw a few. Draw Let's see. One, Okay, this is a good draw. Um Yeah, I think we're okay with that.

[1:07:36] Then, Sauron will attack for 10 damage. Let's take commander damage. And Sauron is at four life, but we are okay because we have Got Rewrites Yeah, that's what we're banking on. Uh but Mountain would have been sweet. We We don't get to though because it's too late. And we also have a Gearhulk that we can't use this turn. Okay, it's a little bit dangerous actually cuz we don't have a lot of mana We'll see. Uh discard.

[1:08:27] Like this. Pass. This game is actually very close. Knowing Sauron is at four life with a One Ring, we just try to do any amount of damage. So, let's play a land first. And we get a Demonic Tutor. Let's use the tutor. Yes. So, let's search for something that can attack, I guess. Sisters of the Undead seems like a decent target. Okay, I like that. Okay, we're going to cast Sisters of the Undead. Six mana.

[1:09:09] Now Sorin I think we can go with that if they declare combat. So, let's wait. Resolves, we get a vampire token. And let's also do this. 4 5 4 Patriarch's Bidding. Okay. Oh, let's take a look at Sorin's graveyard first. See, that's the sad part about Sorin. Sorin does not have friends. Yeah, there's nothing. Meanwhile, we have everything. Oh, Sorin, we have to counter that, right? Yeah, but unfortunately, we are one mana short. We don't have counter spell mana and Guff Rewrites History mana. Yes, unfortunately, we are just one mana short. Otherwise, we'd be able to counter spell the Bidding and also use Guff Rewrites History.

[1:09:53] So, as is, it looks like we are And that's it. I'm actually really surprised Edgar was able to take the game with the two control decks on the board. And Belbe definitely felt behind every step of the way, especially with the Cyclonic Rift. That's something that's very difficult to protect against. And that just wrecked us. And also, we had some difficulty golding Belbe, which led to a lot of damage taken in the early game. Yeah, so we needed Belbe out earlier. Maybe more ramp, maybe we need that. But at the end, Sorin seemed to have things under control, but Edgar managed to sneak in enough damage to get there. Overall, I think the game showcased how every deck plays, and we will definitely run it back to give Belbe one more chance.

[1:10:37] I'll see you in the next video.
