# Is Monk Gyatso the Most Interesting ELDRAZI Commander?
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/vYRuE4RyjBI
date: 2026-04-21 | views: 41,288 | likes: 1,384 | comments: 180 | length: 9:28 | words: 1,997 | wpm: 211.5
tags: Eldrazi, MTG, EDH, Magic the Gathering, Commander, Gyatso, Avatar

[0:00] Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony. Then, everything changed when the Screw this. I'm going back in the ice. Good show. Anyways, hello. This is Jim with Next Level Commander. Believe it or not, Eldrazi are actually arguably one of the most under-explored tribes in all of Magic. Have I been smoking? No, not this time. Am I trying to shock and bait you into watching the first 30 seconds of my video? Possibly, but hear me out. So, by under-explored, I mean how explored it is in relation to its potential, to the amount of possibilities available.

[0:44] If you've ever played against a colorless Eldrazi deck, you will know it's actually a really freaking powerful show, chaining rocks into rocks, and now they have Zulodok. It single-handedly recoups all of that lost card advantage. It's pretty powerful. Now, I'm not too familiar with anything above bracket three, but I believe a tuned Zulodok probably probably low bracket four at least. But, what's interesting about a powerful colorless shell is that you can play it with over 3,000 legendary creatures. Yeah, literally every single one of them. Yet, are people trying anything beyond the most obvious choices? EDH Wrecks says not really. Now, to be fair, is anything here actually stronger than Zulodok or say Ulamog? Probably not. Not too sure there. But, can we find something more interesting?

[1:25] Perhaps more suitable for bracket three? I think so. Well, it turns out we have one today, Monk Gyatso. Eldrazi. I bet you've never seen this one before. Gyatso is such a sweet card. I glanced over this many times. Excellent in the 99, not a great commander was my verdict. Because, I mean, what can you do with this? ETB or some kind of combo? But, there are way better commanders for both. Say, what is something Gyatso can do that Brago can't? Well, Gyatso does cast the spells, but what creatures benefit from being cast? Oh, right. So, yeah, with the right setup, Gyatso will allow us to recast over and over again, getting those sweet triggers. And it's not just that, Gyatso actually works really well with face-down creatures. Manifest, manifest dread, cloak, all that stuff.

[2:07] Because we can drop them, target them, and then they become usable from exile. This is a great alternative way to cheat in the big boys, but they don't even have to be creatures, either. Imagine an Air Bender Ugin, Air Bender All Is Dust. Lands don't work, though, so don't Air Bend those. And it turns out Eldrazi actually have a lot of inherent synergy with morph. There's even a Kozilek like that lets us morph stuff from hand. Imagine this, you morph a few things, Air Bend them, cast Air Bend Kozilek, cast repeat. Okay, this is actually really synergistic. This is sweet. Let's go, and this time we start with the exciting part, the Eldrazi. We actually don't need many, just the most exciting ones. Even 11 might be a bit high. I'm not too sure about Artisan of Kozilek, for example. I guess it's decent, but we are ramping our way up with Oblivion Sower, the Solemn Simulacrum for Eldrazi, and we'll get to use it over and over again.

[2:52] Conduit of Ruin is also an early drop that can set us up for the next turn perfectly. Okay, enough with the chump blockers already. Here comes the titans. I'm going to rank them for this deck, but I would say Ulamog, the Defiler is probably the weakest. I mean, it's still ridiculous if I drop it on say turn five and it sticks, but that probably won't be happening too often, and I don't benefit too much from the cast trigger. So, yeah, this is definitely not the best for this particular deck. And next up is Ulamog, the Infinite Gyre. Sweet card, nostalgic. But, yeah, just blowing up one thing now isn't quite enough in this economy. Next up is Emrakul, the World Anew. It's a sweet ability, but doesn't synergize too well with our deck. Are we really going to Air Bend this and sac our board including Gyatso? I mean, in fringe cases, maybe, like in response to a board wipe, but generally, no.

[3:36] Next up is Ulamog, the Ceaseless Hunger. Exiling two things is definitely worth doing over and over again, and the attack trigger can ruin someone in two to three attacks. Above that, we have Kozilek, Butcher of Truth. Kozileks are the Eldrazi that work best with colorless because when we dump ramp into ramp, the refill is absolutely clutch. Better than the Butcher is Kozilek, the Great Distortion. This is the Eldrazi you feel most comfortable tapping out to cast because it will protect you. And your opponents kind of have to dance around it. But, the best Kozilek, in my opinion, for this deck is the Broken Reality. It can draw you four cards while disrupting your opponents a little. And recasting this over and over, you can actually run them out of cards, which is ridiculously powerful. Or alternatively, we can use this to morph two things from our hand, which will then Air Bend and cast for cheap.

[4:19] And finally, the ultimate EDH Eldrazi, Emrakul, the Promised End. Yes, this card wins games, especially if you trigger it multiple times. I can even target the same opponent over and over again with the help of flash, but usually one properly timed return is more than enough. And that's all the Eldrazi. Now, we move on to the subtheme of the deck, face-down shenanigans. Seriously, if you're building this deck, don't sleep on these morph cards. It might sound a bit gimmicky, but in practice, it works really well. Unsettling Twins, for example, I was really disappointed with this being the best white manifest dread card, but even this turned out to be an all-star in the deck. Play it, cheat in one card from the top, Air Bend it, Air Bend the twin, repeat. It's a value engine. Ugin's Mastery is sweet as well, and of course, Scroll of Fate.

[5:01] Also, there's Ugin, the Ineffable. I do also play Unexplained Absence because it's just a really good removal spell. But, yeah, that's it. I thought we'd have more manifest cloak or manifest dread options considering I mean, we have three freaking keywords for the same thing, but apparently not. Okay, now, a final hurdle before that sweet, sweet value. We need ways to target our own stuff. For that, I'm trying to stick with lands and mana rocks with that ability rather than playing cards to do just that. There are some decent options. The best of the bunch are Tower of the Magistrate and Northampton Farm. We'll also have to make do with stuff like Endless Sands, Ruin of Oren Reef, Eye of Ghet, Tyrant's Sanctum, and even Secluded Starforge. Also, these MDFCs can Air Bend in a pinch. In mana rocks, I'm using Liquimetal Coating and Patriarch's Seal.

[5:44] The Iron Craig is just a decent mana rock, and when I'm really desperate, I'll consider the option to turn it into an equipment and Air Bend things for three mana each. But, yeah, that reminds me, equipments are also excellent for that, especially Lightning Greaves. Swiftfoot Boots also makes the cut. We do need protection for Gyatso, and also Stoneforge to search for them. Collector's Cage is a hidden gem that allows us to target things repeatedly, but it's also just a sweet value card. Often times, you just get to dig five cards and cast one of them for free. Also, an aura and Sentinel's Eyes being reusable from the graveyard for one mana makes it really efficient. But, the best of the bunch is none other than Triskelion. Yes, I broke Triskelion. It doesn't really combo too well in this deck, but it's still insane value.

[6:24] Every time it pings, something gets Air Bent, including itself. So, even just on its own, it's two mana for two damage, which can be useful because it's repeatable. And because of Gyatso, our entire board is pretty much protected from spot removals. But, what about the old man himself? We don't play too many ETB creatures, but the ones we do are mostly for protecting him. Guardian of the Faith is the best of the bunch, phasing out Gyatso while Air Bending any number of other creatures. Aether Adept does the same, pretty much. And Aven Interrupter is disgusting when we get to use it over and over again. Restoration Angel and Salvation Swarm are less good, but still pretty useful and versatile. I'm also using the best protection spells like Teferi's Protection, Dawn's Truth, and Cosmic Intervention. These are not just for Gyatso, but also because we tend to overcommit with our artifact ramp.

[7:06] For removals, aside from the aforementioned Unexplained Absence, we've got three Ugins. Yeah, they're just all really good. Final Showdown is ridiculous. I try to put it into every white deck, and it fits perfectly here. Austere Command is still stable status. That's a lot of answers. Somehow, this mostly colorless Eldrazi deck has more answers and utility than most of my other decks. Yeah, and we have some generic Eldrazi colorless enablers like Vedalken Orrery, Skittering Surveyor, and Liberator. Flash is huge in this deck. Imagine having a bunch of Air Bent cards and you can just fire them off at any time for two mana each. Pew, pew, pew, pew. Strionic Resonator for some copying, and of course, Echoes of Eternity. And of course, we have a lot of ramp as Eldrazi decks do. Nothing too special here, just all of the most efficient rocks.

[7:48] And also, we have a Tezzeret just for the soaring and occasionally the mana vault shenanigans. For lands, we prioritize targeting with the ones we mentioned earlier. But, aside from that, we do get to enjoy more utility lands than most other decks, starting with ramp, some miscellaneous utility, and of course, my personal favorite, Winding Canyons. Just imagine having a bunch of Eldrazi on Air Bend, a Winding Canyon, and some open mana. What do your opponents even do? But, yeah, there you have it, Gyatso Eldrazi. This deck is sweet because it's multi-dimensional. You are capable of ramping out big Eldrazi on turn four or turn five, but you can also play the morph manifest game to cheat them out. Gyatso ties it all together, and there's so many interesting interactions and cool plays to be explored.

[8:29] The deck is really explosive. I mean, look at the mana rocks. But, in exchange, it's not the most resilient. White does help a bit, but you still risk losing half of your mana base to a board wipe. Card draw can also be a little bit rough if you don't find your Kozileks in time. It's not the most difficult deck to play, but there are a lot of interactions and decision trees that you will have to figure out. Eldrazi decks are not cheap. Archidekt shows just shy of $1,000 for the cost, which is to be fair, lower than what I had expected, but the expensive pieces are kind of important. And I mean, half of them are the Eldrazi themselves. So, yeah, and finally, this should be suitable for most bracket three tables. Might even be higher depending on what your group is used to. But, that's all. Thank you for checking out another deck tech.

[9:10] I've been really into deck techs lately. These ideas just keep coming. You can check out my Archidekt. Oh, yeah, and the list for this deck is also down below. But, check out my Archidekt page. You can see what I'm toying with, and if any of them looks interesting to you, do subscribe. I will make a video on that, probably. That's all. Thank you. I will see you
