# The Biggest Commander Deck (Ever)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/WNu1yqnjHWA
date: 2025-07-03 | views: 3,177 | likes: 112 | comments: 29 | length: 8:01 | words: 1,657 | wpm: 208.0

[0:00] Hello, this is Jin from Next Level Commander and today I present to you the biggest commander deck of all time. For reference, the average Aldrazi decks don't usually go higher than 4.5 for average mana value. Meanwhile, Gashath dinosaurs fall just below 3.5. That is weak because the average mana value of our big deck is a whopping 6.048. In this monstrosity, we are powering with just 10 lands technically. How does that work? Well, it's like going to the most luxurious restaurants, but only ordering water. Using the most expensive makeup, but it's just free samples. Fake it till you make it. This is basically scornful egotist, but an entire deck.

[0:41] Vanity is the game we're playing today. We get to use all these high-end creatures like avatar of wo, but only when it's on sale. We attend the most prestigious schools, but can't afford the classes. Now, another cornerstone of the faking till making is looking very busy, but not accomplishing much. Who says magic doesn't teach real life skills? Starting turn one, we'll be tapping our lands, shuffling our decks, yelling in response, pulling our cards in and out of their sleeves just to hit our land drops in the early game. And trust me, you will usually get there, but it's a struggle. You have to figure out which colors you need now and which ones you may need in the next few turns. I guess I just enjoy decks that work against you. But you're not like me. You don't hate yourself. All this hassle for what, you ask?

[1:22] What's the payoff? We'll definitely get to it, but for now, just to get a taste, recross the paths. This is one of the very few ram spells that actually work with this deck. I mean, we're already heavily favored in Clash, and the more you cast this, the more unbeatable we become. But rest of the juicy payoffs I will save till the end because at this point, we should be presenting our commander. If I wait any longer, I might just forget to do it. Essica, god of the tree, and the backside, prismatic brit. And if you haven't guessed already, she's not very important to our game plan. I mean, Esica is decent because even without other legends, her mana ability is somewhat helpful in such an impoverished deck. And if you get the breathing room to drop the bridge, it will generate decent value, cheating terrifying land cyclers onto the board.

[2:04] But yeah, most fivecolor legends will probably do okay here. Actually, Golos used to be at the helm, but it got banned. Not sure why. Probably because of this deck. I've also seen similar lists run progenitis and another one with Reaper King, but for now, we're sticking with Esica. Now, let's take a closer look at our unnecessarily complicated land base. 15 land cyclers, three of each color. The ones from Lord of the Rings are absolutely brilliant, and they also keep printing new cycling 2 options. So, we have a few to choose from, but here is what we're using right now. Also, 15 MDFCs, the ones that can enter untapped for some life are premium, but the front side is also relevant. We may need that utility in a pinch. And for the real lens, we can pretty much use anything that has land types.

[2:44] 10 DS, 10 shocks, 10 trilands, surveillance, or even just these, doesn't matter. 10 lands. So, a total of 40 lands technically. But even with all that cycling, we might still struggle to hit our land drops. So, we're also including a ton of card draw, tutors, and recursion. Although, most of our cards kind of do two things here. So, it may be difficult to clearly define which is which. Definitely don't try to use them. Deck building templates here. We're going by vibes, card draw, and card selection. As you can see, for a lot of these, we're basically overpaying for effects just because they're part of a bigger package or has alternate costs. The bringers are actually sweet for five mana recursion. To be honest, we don't need that much recursion, but just look at the mana value on these.

[3:26] Oh, yes. Also, the green ones here are more like life gain spells. We need these because of how slow our deck is, and it's really freaking slow. So, yeah, we're going to need a ton of removals and answers to be able to keep up with the table. And by a ton, I mean 21 pieces. If this feels excessive, just remember you don't always have to play them as removals. They can also be Kantress, graveyard hate, more recursion, or just big dumb creatures. The board wipes are pretty important though. Your opponents will surely be developing while you fiddle with yourself for the first few turns. Blossomous Act and Vanquish the Horde are all stars. Hour of Revelation is really powerful, but the triple white can cause some issues. And next up, we have a few cards that are just big. That's basically their qualification. If they were the same card, but costed half the mana, they'd all be cut.

[4:08] Personality does not matter. Size is everything. And you can tell I'm restraining hard to not make some jokes right now, but this is no place for comedy. This deck is very serious. Let's start small. At seven mana, Overlord of the Mistors, actually a really powerful card that can help us hold the fort early and late. Float Sam and Jet Sam at eight mana. Normally, we're just using the left side, but the right can actually be quite impactful if we draw this late. Afterlife from the LOM is similar also at eight mana. We have to be very careful with Delve here because we use our graveyard for other things like life gain. But this one does work pretty well with her deck with all the creatures we're dumping. And again, late game, this can be a lot of power for just three mana. Moving up to nine mana, we have cavern horde dragon.

[4:51] I'm usually casting this for five to six mana, and it's excellent at that rate, smacking your opponents while ramping us into bigger, better things. 11 mana, the pride of hog plate. Just a decent defender that we can drop for cheap with just one or two creatures on board. And once in a while when the opportunity arises, we get to smack someone and draw 15. Seems okay. Also at a level mana, we have blood for the blood god. A lot of our deck is instant speed. The cycling, the removals, and alongside those instance, we are holding on to this. Waiting for our boardwalk to hit. Doesn't resolve often, but when it does, all the weight is worth it. Just like edging of eternalities. Yeah, I've been waiting for that one for a while. Yes. 12 mana.

[5:31] Scion of Draco. doesn't actually do anything, but we can cast it for two mana. Sure, why not? 13 mana, Emercle, the Promised End. Now, this is a true late game. Even with the way we're filling our graveyard, we probably won't be getting Emmy below nine mana, but when you get there, she can win games all by herself. And finally, at 16 mana, our biggest boy, Draco, the ultimate payoff in this deck. Draco will be a six mana 9 with no upkeep to pay. This was probably Magic Players collective wet dream in 2001. And now we get to live it. And now that you've seen the biggest boys, especially Draco, we can finally look at the rest of the payoff cards.

[6:12] And we evaluate them with Draco in mind. Yes, we're just going to assume we're always getting it. Planeteer of Orthane to get Scry 2 every turn and also force our opponents to give us a card or we Draco them. Reviving Vapor to dig for Draco and gain 16 life. Kaboom to reveal Draco and deal 16 damage. Soul Fire Eruption to deal 16 with Draco and cast it after. Pyromancy to discard Draco and Vengeful Rebirth to recur Draco for you guessed it 16 and 16 more damage. Heretic punishment milling Draco for 16. Sar and Grim Nemesis revealing Draco for 16. Draw 16 with interpret the signs and make 16 blockers with Alminster. And now we have the most fascinating card in the deck. Aside from Draco, of course, Psychic Battle.

[6:54] We'll be choosing targets for all things all. As long as the cards say is target, we are in control. Equipments, auras, removals, reanimation, even some extra turn cards, we are taking them. Speaking of extra turns, this deck falls firmly in bracket one. But if you want to sneak your way up, time shifter will take us straight to bracket five, maybe higher. And you think we're finished? No, we're not. Remember how we barely have any lands in the deck? Yeah, we're also doing goblin char. After some cycling, we'll be charging our opponents for 10 15 damage easily in the mid game and double that in the late game. And there you have it, the biggest deck in commander and maybe all of magic. Disclaimer, this deck is actually a bit of a pain to play, but it does work and can easily be one of the most unique builds in any bracket one through bracket 3 play group.

[7:40] This is Chin from Next Level Commander. Normally, I try to build decks that are functional and unique, prioritizing the former. And this mana value deck is probably as wacky as I'll be going. But if this is the kind of content you actually enjoy seeing, please let me know in the comments and subscribe so you don't miss future content. Thanks and I'll see you
