# The Most Synergistic Precon - Final Fantasy Counter Blitz Collector Deck Opening
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/WVxk3ciZGSQ
date: 2025-06-14 | views: 923 | likes: 30 | comments: 8 | length: 43:55 | words: 7,891 | wpm: 179.8

[0:00] Hello, this is Jin from Next Level Commander and today we have the second commander deck from Final Fantasy. It is Counter Blitz, also collector's edition. And once again, as usual, we are going to open the deck, show the beautiful cards, and also try to upgrade it, look at some cuts, look at some replacements, and upgrade this to a racket three if possible. All right, let's take a look. Okay, here is the rack. Uh the deck box should be the same. We got the deck here. Oops. Got the deck here ah the pack and everything else.

[0:45] We'll go to the side. Yeah, we'll first get into the deck. Let's see. So, we've got uh Titus, the commander, and this commander is one that works with counters. At the beginning of combat on your turn, you may move a counter from target creature you control onto a target, a second target creature you control. Uh, whenever one or more creatures you control with counter something, deal combat damage to a player, you may draw a card and proliferate. do this only once each turn. Sure, it's once each turn, but it's still pretty powerful, right?

[1:25] Because you can Yeah, each turn you can play for it once and draw a card. And for three mana, this is quite aggressive. It's nice to move around plus one plus encounters, but when you get into the sagas is when it gets really spicy. So, Titus, we'll leave him here. Next up, Yuna. Wow, nice. I mean, I never played this game, Final Fantasy 10, but these characters, it's impossible to not know them. Okay, grand summon. Add one mana of any color. When you next cast a creature spell this turn, that creature enters with two additional counters on it. Plus one counters on it. That's really good. Whenever another permanent you control is put into the graveyard if it had one or more counters on it, you may put that number of plus one plus one counters on target creature, you know.

[2:10] So it turns all your per so all your counters stay basically even if it's a saga. For example, the saga creature dies at the end of the chapters. You can convert those saga counters into plus one counters and put them onto a creature. So these two commanders, they synergize really well with each other. Yeah. Well, I mean, this is our commander, but yeah, this other legend. So, this is a plus one counter deck, and I think it's really wide open. You can play plus one counters, you can play saga, uh, lower lore counters, you can do shield counters, all kinds of counters. So, let's see what counters this guy's about. Oron venerated guardian vigilance. Whenever Oruron attacks, put a plus one counter on it.

[2:53] If you when you do, exile target creature defending player controls with power less than Oruron's power until Oruron leaves the battlefield. H. So, every combat you can exile something. It's not overly powerful. Yeah, it's a bit slow, but still we're doing the counter synergy. And if we can move some counters onto Oron, he can exile some pretty large large defenders, large creatures. So that seems decent up here. Next up, Chocobo Knights. Whenever you attack creatures you control with counters of them, gain double strike. Holy, that is aggressive because all of our creatures will have counters and saga creatures are just naturally countered.

[3:34] So super powerful. Gata and Luzu flash. When Gata and Luzu enters, choose target creature you control. If damage will be dealt to that creature this turn, prevent that damage and put that many plus one counters on it. H. It's a cool trick, but I'm not sure this is impactful. like you don't even kill the uh it's I mean if you were going to trade with the opposing creature sure you can kill them now but otherwise you chomp block and your creature gets big but you're not even killing the blocked So three mana flash uh technically you can get a lot of counters but probably So again, this is a cool card, but I don't think it's impactful enough.

[4:19] So I will put it in the maybe pile because I'm I'm imagining this deck I'm expecting it to have lots of really really good synergy. So this relatively speaking is a bit weaker. Okay, Lord Jasco Guad flying at the beginning of each end step you put a if you put a counter on a creature this turn, investigate. Uh, similar to the last card, it's a cool effect, but can we put counters on other people's turn? I think that's what we're asking here because if we just investigate investigate once a turn, that's not a strong ability, right? We are paying two a turn to draw a card in I think green white has better.

[5:01] I mean, we are in blue, so blue, green, white, then we have better draw effects than this. So, yeah, we'll see if we have ways to place counters onto opponent stuff. If not, then this doesn't quite make it. So maybe pile protection magic. Put a shield counter on each of up to three target creatures. Yeah, this is pretty sweet because you can shield three creatures and then proliferate them and then move them around. It's slow, but it can slowly protect your board. And it's also just a decent trick against board wives, removals, anything like that. So solid card. Summon summon Exion. Exile target creature and opponent controls until the this saga leaves the battlefield. So it's a saga three three mana three three and after you do this you can put post one counters on each of up to two target creatures you control and gain two life.

[5:49] It's got first strike. It's not super powerful but being able to choose which ability to reuse with our commander here. Yeah, we can just keep triggering the first ability or we can keep ex on the board just keep getting the counters. I think it's a fairly fairly reasonable cost for this effect. And this deck with the cards we've seen is looking a little bit aggressive. I mean, even this guy, Lord Jasco, even though he's not super impactful, it's a two mana, two-1 flying. That's that's solid, right? So, we'll see if this deck is kind of aggressive uh on the beta, but for now, yeah, I think someone is a solid card to have. Summon Yo Jimbo.

[6:31] Exile target artifact enchantment or tapped creature. Yeah, I'm already on board with this. This is some sweet removal that has great synergy with our commander. But after this, we have until your next turn creatures can't attack you unless their controller pays two for each of those Seems solid propaganda. And again, what's nice about about these abilities is we have to remember we can just keep using them with uh Titus and Titus can just keep moving the lore counters onto say another creature that doesn't care about lore counters. Yeah. So, next up, create X treasure tokens where X's number of opponents who control a creature of power four or greater. Yeah. So, this is kind of situational, but I mean, we got a five five vigilance for four.

[7:15] This is a solid card that we can keep around if we want to. Okay, next up, summoner sending. At the beginning of your end step, you may exile target creature card from a graveyard if you do create a one- one white spirit creature token with flying and put a plus one counter on it. If the exile card's mana value is four or I don't think this is again impactful enough. So every turn, okay, every turn you can exile, you can graveyard hate something and you might get a Oh, you Well, if you exile a creature, you get a spirit.

[7:57] So if you draw this early, it's you might not have targets. If you draw this late, it's too slow to do to be impactful in the mid game or late game. So I would say this is not really worth it, even though the art is sick. Yeah, I'll put this in the maybe pile for now just because if you think about it, early game, late game, this is not doing too much either way. Next up, Blissball Stadium. When this artifact enters, support X. That's putting a counter on each of up to X target creatures. Goal for goal. Three mana tap until the end of turn. Target creature gains whenever this creature deals combat damage to a player. Draw a card for each kind of counter on it and it can't be blocked.

[8:38] Okay, so it gives evasion to one like chances are our cre we would have a creature with at least two kinds of counters on it. So give it unblockable draw two seems decent and the support X is synergistic with our deck. I I'm not sure. Again, this might also be a lower impact card, but it seems like the combination of abilities makes it kind of worth it. Yeah, so I will keep it in for now. Next up, Lulu Stern Guardian. Uh, whenever an opponent attacks you, choose target creature attacking you. Put a stun counter on that creature. Oh, there's a counter on our opponent. Yeah, if we see more of these, we uh this other guy here, Lord, Jascal might might make it back in.

[9:21] But yeah, we get stun counters onto opponent's creatures. And remember, our commander can proliferate those stun counters. So, we can actually keep them tapped basically forever, right? So, that's decent. And also, she's got proliferate herself. Yeah, I think this is solid value and just that four mana perfrate can do a lot of work especially with sagas. Oka traveling merchant two mana one two remove straight up tap remove a counter from a null and prominent you control draw a card. Um, this on its own is not really good, but considering we have a lot of saga creatures, this serves as another kind of another ver another alternative or a backup for Titus, our commander.

[10:09] Yeah. So, considering that synergy, I think Oka is good enough. Now, if it turns out we only have like two or three saga creatures, we're going to cut this. But, I don't think so. It seems like we'll have a lot more. That seems to be a theme in the deck. So, we'll see about that. Most likely, most likely she's good enough. Riku, resourceful guardian. Whenever you put one or more counters on a creature until the end of turn, that creature can't be blocked. Now, steel, move a counter from target creature and opponent controls onto target creature, you control. H, this also feels low impact, but giving whenever one or more counters on a So I guess in theory we can we can proliferate.

[10:52] We can for example if you put a counter on every creature we can alpha strike but the problem is the proliferate here is after we deal damage right. Yeah it's after we do damage. So doesn't work too well and the move counter thing is like how do you know your opponents are going to have counters? I mean sagas will be popular but we can't know for sure that we will have targets for this and I don't see so far I don't see a lot of mass counter placement. So, this card I will say maybe. I'll put it in the maybe pile. Yeah, just because it feels lower impact and also because the counters is so common in Magic. Almost every set, every other set has counter manipulation. So, there will be tons of excellent cards to to put into this deck that are much higher impact.

[11:35] So, we are fairly strict Summon Velfora 55 flying sonic wings. Each opponent chooses a creature with the greatest mana value among creatures they control. Return those creatures to their owner's Well, that's super strong. We can just do this every turn with our commander. Yeah. And it doesn't even matter what the the other ability isn't too strong. Seems like tap up to a creature and put a stun counter on it. It's decent. But this ability uh this first ability first chapter is why we're here. And yeah, this alone justifies the inclusion. I Master Seymour at the beginning of combat on your turn put a number of plus one counters equal to Master Seymour's power on another target creature and then monstrosity X where X is the number of creatures number of counters among creatures you control.

[12:24] Yeah, perfect synergy because we can pump Master Seymour and then Master Seymour will pump our other creatures more and now we got this escalating effect and eventually pretty quickly our board will be massive. Yeah, I imagine this deck is probably pretty strong out of the box compared to the other three, but we'll have to see when we play when we play it. Sphere Grid. Whenever a creature you control deals combat damage to a player, it gets a counter. And creatures you control with plus one counters on them have reach and trample. I was just about to say because decks that go tall often times end up in board stalls because we don't have evasion. And this card gives us evasion and also enables our counters. So, seems solid for two mana.

[13:07] Summon Magga Sisters. Oh, another choose one at random. Is that a cycle? Choose one at random. Combine powers. Put three plus one counters on target creature. Solid. Put a shield counter target creature. You gain life. You gain three life. Solid. And then you can fight something. It's a five mana, five, five haste. Yeah, this tech is looking quite aggressive honestly with the beatdowns. And because this is choose one at random, we can't really, you know, manipulate it too well with our commander. We can keep it alive. We can keep Magnusers Mega Sisters alive, but we we don't really get to know which ability it is. But all three abilities are solid, I'd say. So, worth worth playing.

[13:47] Truml Seymour's Each other non-token you control enters with an additional plus one counter. Seems good. And one tap proliferate X times where X is the number of non-token creatures you control that entered this so this will probably happen maybe once a turn. I don't I don't think it will happen twice a turn regularly, but just having the creatures enter with counters, I think, is solid. Yeah. And being able to proliferate is and I like the the potential upside because once in a while you'll be able to proliferate once, twice, and alpha strike someone.

[14:27] It's slow. It's slow, but we'll keep him for now. Next up, Ununas Decision. Sacrifice a creature. If you do draw a card, then you may put a creature cart. Uh, I remember this card. I've opened it in a pack, but this card I don't think is great. Sure, you can return two It's decent late game, but not the best re uh recursion spell, but also this first ability is not great because we don't we're not really cheating in massive creatures, right? This deck is kind of on curve, right? sacrificing a creature just to put another farmer at hand. I mean, contra compare this to what's it called? Nature's Will is I don't think it's even close.

[15:10] So, yeah, I will put this in the maybe Ununas Whistle. H three mana. Reveal cards from the top of your library until you reveal a creature card. Put that card into your hand and the rest on the bottom of library. When you reveal a creature this way, put X plus one plus one count encounters on target creature you control where X is the mana value. Holy, this does have potential. I mean, it's not amazing in this deck. Like, I can imagine this being ridiculous in some Voltron decks with larger creatures, but it's still decent just because you get to keep that creature and you get to pump something at instant speed. So, overall for three mana, I think it's solid value.

[15:51] Pretty much cantrips. Yeah, sure. Kimari, Valiant Guardian. Uh, this gets a counter and then you can tap something and this becomes copy of that opponent's creature or that creature that opponent controls except it keeps his name. So, I think they just put the person on counter ability on it just to force it into this deck. There's no not really any synergy with anything. Yeah, it's just it just gets a counter. That's it. I mean, if your opponent has cool creatures that use counters, sure, you can use that. But right now, I don't think this is a great fit in this deck. So, maybe pile or maybe pile is currently one, two, three, four, five, six cards.

[16:35] Not bad. Yeah, this deck so far has been more a bit more synergistic than the previous one. The revival trance, the Mardu deck. Yes. Okay. Shelinda, Yavon, Acolyte, Lifelink. Whenever another creature you control enters, put a plus one counter on that creature, if his power is less than Shelinda's power. Otherwise, put a plus one counter on Shelinda. So, basically, whenever a creature enters, you can put a counter on something, either her or that creature. Two minutes to two lifelink. I don't think this is impactful enough. Uh, I don't know. I I feel like again because of how many amazing cards there are for this strategy, I think she's a bit slow.

[17:17] But again, so far it seems like our deck is actually fairly aggressive. And having this early is decent. But I I can I can still think of better cards though. So for now, maybe maybe pile sin unending cataclysm. Flying trample 55. As sin enters, remove all counters from any number of artifacts, creatures, and enchantments. Sin enters with X plus one counters on it where X is twice the number of counters removed this way. This is what I mean by impactful. I mean it's seven mana but most of your commander game will be spent in mid late game and something like this will yeah it will come down and do a lot of work. When sin dies put his counters on target creature control then shuffle this card into his owner's Yeah.

[18:02] So when it enters you can steal your opponent's plus one counters their sagas. You can take their saga counters and sin will be massive and sagas will be popular. Sagas will probably be everywhere I think now, especially after Final Fantasy. So, this is decent. It's not amazing, but I like this. It's a cool card as a, you know, we so far we haven't been been seeing a lot of cards with high mana cost, and having a nice top end like this is cool. Yeah. So, we'll keep it for now. Waka, Devoted Guardian, four mana, reach trample. Whenever Waka deals combat damage to a player, destroy up to one target artifact that player controls and put a plus one plus one counter on Waka.

[18:45] And also at the beginning of your end step, if a counter was put on Waka this turn, put a plus one counter on each other creature you control. Yeah, this is what I call mid to high impact reach trample. Yeah, it see. It's really really powerful. It kills something. It's like a trigon predator. It destroys a artifact or enchantment and then it gets a counter and then it puts a counter on everything. Yeah, it does all the all the things we want in this deck. Collective effort. Sorcery. Destroy target creature with power. Oh, this is a reprint. Yeah, we are in reprint territory now. But sorcery, destroy target creature with power four or greater. Destroy target enchantment. Put a plus one count on each creature target player controls.

[19:25] And you can escalate to uh you can escalate to pick more modes. one, two, or up to three modes. But none of the modes are it's like a removal. Yeah, it's like a removal, but it's not a great removal. Any sorcery removal needs to be excellent. Like needs to be boardwide tier to be to be good in EDH. And also put a plus one counter on each creature we control. It's just I don't think it does enough. So I'd rather just replace this with a premium removal or even a boardw. So uh maybe pile damning verdict. Destroy all creatures with no counters on them. Yeah, once again, you compare this to collective effort. You can see the difference.

[20:06] This is like a blowout. Farewell. Not much to say. Sometimes you just got a farewell. Luminous brood moth. Well, that's a cool inclusion cuz then your board becomes board wipe proof except for farewell, but normal board wipes. And you can then move the flying counters onto other creatures to reuse it again to reuse the undying ability again. Yeah, we are not a graveyard deck. We're not a sacrifice deck, but just creatures dying naturally, I think. And there's some room for for manipulation for uh Yeah, so seems good. Promise of loyalty. Each player puts a vow counter on a creature they control and sacrifices the rest.

[20:48] Each of those creatures can't attack you or a plan walker you control for as long as it has a vow counter on it. This doesn't have much synergy with our deck, but it's a really good board wipe. A solid board wipe. Yeah, I can't imagine what you're going to move foul counters onto things. You're going to proliferate those val counters. There's not much we can do there. But again, this is a really good board wipe, so we keep it. Resourceful defense. Whenever a permanent control leaves the battlefield, if it had counters on it, put those counters on target permanent control. You can move counters from a permanent to another permanent. This is excellent in a planaineswalker deck, but in a creature deck, it's it's Yeah, you can do some tricks like with counter doubling effects, which we might have later on.

[21:32] Yeah, I think we'll keep it in for now because it seems seems like there's a lot of room for for play. We haven't seen too much synergy with this yet, but yeah, it seems like this is the kind of card that uh Johnny would like. Yeah. Scholar of New Horizons. This creature enters with a plus one counter and you can remove a counter from a permanent you control. Search my library for a plank and reveal it and I can put it into play tapped if an opponent controls more lands than me. Yeah, this is the kind of early game we want. Yeah, because we can play catchup if our opponent is ahead in lands. Doesn't seem like we have a lot of ramp in here. If we do, this might be awkward because we also have green.

[22:12] But if we don't, then this is a solid inclusion. Sunscorch Regent. Yeah, this is this card doesn't have much synergy with our deck, but it's just one of the most powerful powerful fatties in the format, I feel. Because it's easily a, you know, 10 10 15 and the life gang is also relevant. Yeah. So again, I I don't see much synergy, but it's just a massive massive flying threat with counters. The kind of card we need together forever. If I cut this card, I might get reported by thousands of people. Just kidding. Nobody watches my videos. But yes, when this enchantment enters support two, uh, choose target creature with a counter on it.

[22:57] When this creature, when that creature dies, return that card to his owner's hand. Yeah, we're not cutting this card. This card is great. Basically, you can have one mana to just return everything that dies. One mana per creature. Yeah, it's an excellent card. This is the kind of payoff for counter counter decks we need. Next up, Casm Skullker. Whenever you draw a card, local one counter on it. And when this creature dies, create X11 blue squid creature tokens with Island Walk where X is the number of plus one counters on it. Seems good. Yeah, we're we're lacking a bit in the synergy department. I guess fine to proliferate this to make it bigger, but making the tokens is decent.

[23:38] And also, we're not really a sacrifice deck, so we don't really get a control when this dies, but I guess it's kind of like board wipe prevention. They wipe. We we're left with a board of, you know, 81 ones. It seems okay. Inexorable Tide. Whenever you cast a spell, proliferate. Yeah, this seems good in this deck. It's not at at its best because in this deck we're casting maybe two spells a turn, but even then it's a powerful effect. So, we'll keep it in. Pull from tomorrow. Just a solid draw spell. Now, I'm surprised they put this in, but it's definitely needed. Draw X cards and discard a card. Again, this deck is not making a lot of mana, it seems like, but even then in the mid game, doing this for four to five is already really, really powerful.

[24:26] bane of progress. When it enters, destroy all artifacts enchants. Put a plus one counter on this for each permanent destroy this way. Yeah, this is a solid removal. And so far, we're seeing a lot of creatures with a lot of counters on them, but our commander isn't really a great payoff for that because commander, the commander removes one counter. It just moves a counter from a creature to another creature. Not really benefiting from creatures that are massive with large counters, large number of counters. So, we'll see if we have some payoff later on. Next up, fight rigging. Hide away five. At the beginning of combat on your turn, put a plus 100 on target creature. Then, if it has power seven or greater, you can play the exile card without paying his mana cost.

[25:09] Yeah. So, this can trigger immediately with some of our larger creatures. See, this is kind of a decent payoff. Yeah, I like it. I like it. It's going to trigger. So, basically, it's three mana to cast a spell from the top five for free. Seems good. Forgotten Ancient, the classic staple encounter decks. Not much to say. You can redistribute counters onto anything you want. You know, move 12 of them onto our commander and we can alo strike someone. Seems good. Next up, Generous Patron. If you watched any of my other videos, this is one of my favorite cards just because it's a green three mana ETB draw two because you're not supporting onto your creatures unless you have some sweet synergy setup. You just put them onto your opponent's creature uh opponent's creatures.

[25:51] Yeah, and you can draw two cards. And also with the, you know, the stun counters and stuff, you'll be drawing more cards. So, this seems good. And also, does it work with our Titus? We can Titus can move. No, it has to move to creatures arc we control. But we can use Titus proliferate. Like, if we proliferate our opponent's counters, you know, something like Saga, their lure counters or their Pokemon counters, we we can draw cards. So, this card is excellent. Next up, Gyra Sage. Uh, it's got evolve, so it gets bigger and then it adds mana for each plus one counter on it. Perfect. Just the card we need. Harden skills whenever. Yeah, it adds one more counter whenever whenever we place a counter.

[26:31] Seems good. Incubation Druid. I think it's similar to Gyrus Sage. If it's got a counter, it can add three mana. Solid. Path of discovery. Whenever a creature you control enters, it explores. Honestly, this seems good in this deck, but I don't like it just because again, we're not having that many creatures enter. We're not a token deck. So, say again, we have two creatures enter, what we're going to do, we are going to draw it if it's a land and then place a counter onto the second creature. And that's just not very impactful for a four mana enchantment. Like, if it's a four mana 55 creature, I would consider it. But this is much better in a token deck where you can go wide rather than a counter stack.

[27:15] So, we'll put this in the maybe pile. Rampant Rejuvenator. This creature enters with two plus one counters on it. When it dies, search your library for X basic land cards. Seems good. Again, we don't have we have no control over our creatures dying. But if it just dies naturally, is is a lot of value. We'll be piling counters onto this with our commander with other effects. So, I think this again, you're playing counter stack. You want to play the ones that are synergistic, right? You don't want to play the generic ram spells and this is one of those counter payoff cards. Tireless Tracker whenever land interest enters investigate and this is a really powerful card and it kind of has counters but there's no synergy with our deck, right?

[27:59] What do we do with investigate? I guess we crack them to draw cards. But we're in blue. We have better ways to draw cards. Yeah, this is I I imagine they put this in as a draw spell that has kind of counter synergy, but the synergy is so weak and I think there are better options. It's a sweet card. I love this card, but not for this deck. So maybe altered eagle just enters as a copy of a creature with X plus one counters on it. Can potentially be really good if it's a creature that cares about counters. For example, this one. For example, if you clone rampant rejuvenator, right, you can easily get four or six counters onto it and when it dies, you'll ramp six lands. So there is some synergy here. Endless detour.

[28:40] The owner of target spell. Non land permanent or cart in a graveyard. Shuffles it. Wait, puts it on the top or bottom. Their choice though. So, it's kind of a counter spell, kind of a removal. Yeah, I think it's decent. I think it's decent because it's versatile enough that even though it's not a hard counter, it's I think it's decent in this deck. Fathom Mage. Another staple in plus one counter decks. Not much to say. This is when you get this onto the board, you will get so much value. Just protect her at all costs. Yeah, she will she will repay you. Walking ballista. Four mana to put a counter onto it and remove a counter to deal one damage.

[29:24] seems kind of slow, but often times, like on paper, this card is slow and doesn't do much, but often times it's surprisingly impactful, especially when you have the plus one counter kind of Um, I I was told that there's a combo in this deck with with this card with locking ballista, but I'm not sure. I'll take a look to see, but on its own, I think it's a fine card. Yeah, we'll have to play with it to see, but yeah, I think it's worth a try. Now, are we on to lands yet? We are not. They they like to pile the lands with non lens for some reason. We're going to skip to the non lens first. Yeah. Follow me once.

[30:06] Um, here you go. Okay. Destroy evil. Two mana. Choose one. Destroy creature with toughness four or greater or destroy target enchantment. It's okay. It's passable, but there are way better removals in in our colors. So, I don't want to keep a card like this in here. It just feels very Grateful apparition. Whenever this creature deals combat damage to a player playing smaller, proliferate. Two amount of flying is proliferating once a turn worth I don't uh I don't know. I'm not sure this is impactful enough because once again, we are not going wide. we'll have like two, three creatures with counters and this will just give a plus one on each of them.

[30:50] And also we don't really want for a lot of our sagas, we don't want counters on them. Like we don't want to perade them because we want we want to keep them around with Titus. Maybe sometimes you do. Sometimes you Oh, again I'll put it in a high maybe I because I think I I might be off there with sagas because some sagas you can just being able to trigger their ability twice is actually really powerful. But we'll have to see. See this is why is path to exalt with destroy evil in the same precon. It's just not the same level of cards, right? We could have swords to shurers instead of this. Maybe we do. We'll see. Path exile. Not much to say. Premier removal. Wow.

[31:31] They put an offer you can't refuse in here. It's just okay. Really good counter spell. Not much to say. Dusk Shell Crawler. When this enters, put a counter on target creature. Each creature you control with plus one counter on it has trample. I don't think this does enough. I know we need evasion, but I think we have way better cards for doing this. So, we'll do maybe farsek ramp spell. Yeah, search for planes or islands. Can't say no. Inspiring call. This is another one of those payoff cards for a counter deck. Your creatures get indestructible. the creatures with counter get instructible and you draw a card for each counter each creature that is countered.

[32:13] This seems like a lot of value. You don't even need to fire it off to protect your board. Just to pay three mana, draw four instant speed is really good. Three visits, another great ramp spell. Brad for the hunt. Whenever another creature you control with a plus one counter on it deals combat damage to a player, you may draw a card. There are better cards, but this is I mean it's made for this deck. Where else are you going to play this? And it's the effect is solid. We need card draw, so it's fine. Arcane signate. Cool. Everflowing chalice. Yeah, synergy with I like how they also put some thought into the choice of manox. Let's see if they do the same for lands.

[32:53] So ringing seems good. Now on to lands. Brushland. Canopi vista. Exotic Orchard. Yeah, solid land choices. Facial Seems good. Seems good. Yeah, all of these I wouldn't feel bad to play except I'm guessing there's also the Oh, they put Temples in here. Now, Tempo are not great are not great, but they're serviceable and they're better than the in the other deck where we had straight up entering tapped lands. So, these are Like if I ever cut lands, if I want to replace some of my lands, these will probably be the first to go. But we'll see.

[33:34] We'll see what comes after ash barons. Evol Oops. Evolves. Forge of Yeah, this just places a counter onto our commander. Seems good. Oh, there you go. There's I was wondering if they didn't put these into the deck. Yeah, these are the first to to get cut, Yeah, they don't do anything. Nesting grounds. Yeah, this is the same ability as our commander. You can just move things which is really powerful with Path of Does it work with sagas? Yes, it does. Yeah. Path of ancestry. It's fine. Yep. Sean Citadel Tangled Temple of the False God.

[34:14] Why is this Why is it in this deck? We don't have that much rep. This card is a bit questionable because you need five lands. Like if you get it early, it's super awkward. But overall, I think it's worth it. But then in this deck, I don't know because we don't have a ton of large mana spells. So, you'll have to play with this and see. In this video, we're not going to cut lands just because we want to make more impactful changes. But lands are definitely important now with uh in terms of just optimizing your deck because there's so many excellent lands land choices now that you can use. Okay, let's take a look at the basics. Beautiful. Wow. Yeah, these are nice and treasures clue spirit.

[34:56] Cool. Oh yeah, we get the counters too. Awesome. That is the deck. And now this time I won't forget. I will open the collector simple booster. First we got a summon Esper. Wow, Valaranda. That's really cool. And a Estinian Ver Verino. Awesome. Yeah, we will be back to take a look at the edits. Let's actually let's see how many maybe how many cards are in there. Maybe pile one 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13.

[35:37] Okay, we will take a look at these and maybe put in 13 cards to replace these. See you soon. Okay, now that we have everything sorted into piles by utility, let's take a look. So, first of all, we have 37 lands. Apparently, this is the standard that they're setting for us. Honestly, I think it's a little bit low, but 37 for now. We'll do. And next up, we have Next up, we have a huge pile because unlike the last deck, in this deck, everything is just so synergistic. Like most of the cards that give counter can also use counters. So basically all these cards can support themselves like take take the example of the sphere grid is giving counters to our creatures at the same time it's pumping uh creatures with counters.

[36:23] So this deck has excellent excellent synergy and all these cards can work with each other. And next up we have draw spells. Now draw spells we have 1 2 3 4 5 six seven of these. And honestly I think seven is fine. I added a few more, but seven is reasonable. And next up, we have removal spells. Now, we have a ton. Now, I'm a little bit loose with the definition of removal, but anything that you know bounces things that exile things temporarily, I'm counting them as removals. And I believe there are 12 of these. And also, actually 12 removals plus a counter spell. So, 13 in total answers. This is enough.

[37:03] Yeah, this is more than enough. And also ramp. There's a ton. Take a look. Nine pieces of ramp. And in this deck, I found that even though it's a blue green deck, the top end is not heavy. If you look at the cards, we don't have a lot of cards over six CMC. Yeah, the highest manacross card I can think of is sin here. And everything else is Yeah, there's not even a six CMC card, which is super strange. I find uh you have a lot of ramp, you have a lot of, you know, you're playing a lot of card draw. you should have some late game stuff, which is uh this is something that I decided to add to this deck because we need finishers, right? We need uh bombs.

[37:44] So, when it comes to the cards cut, none of them are actually bad cards. Again, they're all decent cards, but I just feel like in commander, especially, let's let's take this as an example. In the early days, Commander precons had tons of cards like this where they are synergistic on paper, but they just don't do enough. And a lot of these cards, even though not to the extent of this, this is the worst one. I think a lot of these cards do things, but just not I don't think they're worth a card slot. So, now let's take a look at the cards we we included. Let's make piles. Let's make piles. Except we're going to take this one out. And with this pile is all the cards that I find to be basically the best plus one counter, the best counter cards in all of Magic.

[38:30] and also some top end some payoff just uh again if you search for the best plus one counter cards a lot of them would be the same but here's my choice Denny Pink because we are a little bit short on draw spells and this guy is ridiculous for drawing just behind Fathom Mage because basically it says for each creature you control draw a card cuz your your creatures mostly have counters on them pretty much all of them have counters on them and you are proliferating so yeah this also he has mentor so he's able multiple counters on creatures. Next up, Kodama of the West Tree. Another ridiculous counter payoff. First of all, all your modified creatures, which is creatures with counters on them, have trample. That's like a lorded effect, an evasion effect that you need uh to finish the game.

[39:14] And also, whenever a modified creature you control deals combat damage, you can search for a basic land. You can ramp once. Yeah, this is like one of the ultimate plus one counter payoffs. A dream tide whale. In a multiplayer game, this card is also ridiculous because your opponents by mid game, they will be casting two spells a turn. No questions. So, you'll be getting proliferate at least two to three times a turn and your board will grow fast. And this will will never will never die to vanishing. Don't let this mislead you. It's also a three mana 75, which is decent. Yeah. Next up, evolution witness. The best plus one counter recursion payoff. Whenever you get a counter onto the witness, you you can recur something.

[39:55] Yeah, that's sweet value. Mutational advantage, a protectional protection spell specifically for a counter deck. Permanence you control with counters on them gain hexroof indestructible until the end of turn. Prevent all damage that will be dealt to them. This is for planes walkers. It's not really relevant for our deck, but the last word is proliferate. Yeah, this card does everything. Does everything. They think they're wiping your board. Your board is getting bigger. nuts evolution stage landfall proliferate uh because again we need more proliferate effects for because we we're removing counters a lot but we're not proliferating enough and in a green deck we have a lot of ram spells we can trigger this once twice a turn and I think yeah it's just such a sweet enabler a really powerful engine slippery bog bonder it's got flash hexroof and when it enters you can put a hex proof counter on target creature then you can move any number of counters from among creatures you control to that creature there's a lot of synergy a lot of play here, but just on the surface, giving someone hexroof counter and then you proliferate it and then you can distribute it.

[40:56] You can give multiple creatures hexroof, which is excellent protection. And just the the flash, you know, and the moving counters is there's a lot of synergy, a lot of things you can do with this Oelith. I Yeah, I was surprised this isn't in the deck. This is the pretty much the best plus one counter artifact there is. It's got cycling, too, but we're not going to cycle it. This is amazing. Whenever we get a counter on something, we get one more and then it can also place counters onto onto creatures on his own. Yeah, just uh lots of value, lots of synergy with our deck. The next one is Wave Goodbye. Now, this is a blowout. Just like the the white board wipe that said destroy all creatures without counters, return each creature without a plus one counter to its owner's hand.

[41:43] This is a one-sided board wipe. is like almost a psychonic rift where you can remove all their creatures and you can alpha strike your opponents. We need more cards like this. Next up is rich cars expertise. Like I was saying earlier, we have lots of big creatures, but we we're not doing anything with the the massive power aside from beating people. And there are so many cards in green that can make use of that large power, and this is one of them. Uh draw cards equal to the power of your largest picture, and you can cast this spell for free. Yeah, just one of the best draw spells for green. Next up, Quilled Great Worm. And I was saying again, we didn't have enough top end. I think this is a great top end for our deck. Your creatures will get will accumulate counters so fast.

[42:26] And when they kill the Great Worm, it will just come back because you will have enough counters to recur it. And it's a recur a recurable threat that keeps coming back. And yeah, with the coolorm on the field, you're going to finish the game much faster. Next up, we have two pump spells because yeah, again, you have a massive board. You need to finish the game with it. Become the avalanche. Draw a card for each creature you control with power four or greater. So, pretty much all of them. Then they all get plus X plus X uh X's number of cards in your hand. So, you're going to give your board plus 6 plus eight. Yeah, cuz you're drawing cards. You're drawing cards with this. This is an excellent finisher. And even if you fail to finish, you just refill your hand. You can you can do more damage with something like Overwhelming Stampede.

[43:08] This is the ultimate finisher. You just need one massive creature. For example, forgotten ancient. You pump uh for example, if your ancient is an 88, you will pump your board, entire board by eight, and you can swarm them with uh the trample, your trample fatties. So, these are the 12 cards that I think will make the card better and hopefully bring it up a bracket. And I will have the final deck list in the descriptions. And thanks again for watching. Uh, let's put this all together. And please like and subscribe and comment and let me know if you like this kind of content, if you look forward to more. Well, whether you look forward or not, I already got these decks. So, this will Yeah, this will be this will be my next two videos.

[43:51] But aside from that, thank you again for watching. I will see you
