# These 15 Cards Sum Up What I Learned in 15 Years of Playing Commander
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/X-TmnMNYJXw
date: 2025-05-22 | views: 4,791 | likes: 258 | comments: 88 | length: 19:47 | words: 3,588 | wpm: 181.5
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 0:51 Farrexian Arena; 2:31 Boundless Realms; 4:39 Resolute Archangel; 6:44 Necessity of Aggro; 7:53 Importance of Land Drops; 8:41 Card Evaluation; 9:56 Pendant of Prosperity; 10:57 Croxa; 12:35 Dig Up; 13:36 Evelyn; 14:53 Eternal Wonder; 15:48 Paul Jamar Illusionist; 17:23 Lindlum Industrial Regency; 18:46 Giveaway
tags: #MTG #Commander #EDH #MagicTheGathering #15YearsOfCommander

[0:00] I wish there was a way to know you're in the good old days before you've actually left them. 15 years is a long ass time. 15 years ago, people were still waiting for the last Harry Potter movie. YouTube still had a five-star rating system and Spongebob versus Spider-Man in Magic was just a me. And ever since I started playing Commander in 2011, I learned many lessons about the format and the game as a whole. And today, I want to share that journey with you through 15 Magic cards, one for each year that captured the biggest lessons I learned along the way.

[0:40] Let's get started. 2011, the year of nuclear meltdowns and occupying Wall Street. That year taught me that progress always comes at a cost, but in Magic, it was always worth it. As a new player, I hungrily proud the internet for podcasts and articles for tech to add into my deck, and Farraxian Arena was one of them. I still remember a comment I read in a forum. Fyexian arena wins games. That's it. I was sold. I bought a Farrexian arena for every black deck I had and played it without question for years following. I can't remember how often I turn two demonic tutor for a turn three arena. Fraxian arena wins games.

[1:21] You never really know when a stray opinion, a random post, or a half-hearted argument quietly slips into your worldview. It comes from God knows where, maybe a meme, a comment thread, a late night conversation, and before you realize it, it becomes a part of your truth. You hold on to it, defend it, and even let it shape your decisions around it, forgetting just how arbitrary its origin really was. And it wasn't until a few years ago I began to really question how good Fyrexin Arena really is. I mean, it's good on turn three, but if you draw it in the mid late game, in the mid game, one turn is a long time to wait in commander. Would I just be better off with something like Signing Blood or Read the Bones?

[2:02] Maybe. But it wasn't until the release of this card that I became completely sure that Vyexian Arena has been outdated for years, maybe even decades. But the lack of direct comparisons kept me deluded. And now because of this experience, I question every card and re-examine every staple. Is it really pulling its weight in this deck? This made cutting cards much easier as nothing is untouchable anymore. Every card has to justify and rejustify it inclusion. Next up is when I learned about the power of ramp. 2012 Boundless Realms. Back then, I mean, people knew the power of ramp. Primeval Titan was a thing, but for the most part, it was cultivates in the rampant growths.

[2:44] They were subtle. In Boundless Realms was anything but. The turn after Boundless Realms, I felt like I was playing a different game than anyone else. And people quickly caught on and tried to kill me before I got to untap. And that was when I realized among the myriad things you can do in Commander, not many are better than straight up gathering resources. And greed is often rewarded. Nowadays, it's a common saying that a player who spends the most mana tends to win. For me, Boundless Realms was the card that made it really clear. Next up, we have a lesson about Simic. Not just the color, but the play style. In 2013, Theos brought us the Greco Roman mythology world of Theos.

[3:25] And near the end of the spoilers, Wizards quietly slipped in a little rare that changed everything. Profit of Cruix. It felt like they were trying to police commander players, but hadn't quite figured out where the line was. Profit of Kruix was the card that introduced me to the true power of simic in commander. Patiently gathering resources in the early game, comfortably sitting behind the 40 life cushion and the unwritten social rules of multiplayer before eventually exploding into an overwhelming flood of value. It is by far the winningest strategy in casual commander. And when everyone catches on, the game becomes who can drag the simic curve further with the greediest buildups and payoffs.

[4:06] And this was when I realized that casual commander is an inherently broken format. There is the best path to victory, but it's less about whether you win and more about how you win. I've always liked to compare Commander to a single player video game. Once you beat it on easy mode, do you keep stomping easy mode over and over? No. Oh, you go to medium, you go to hard, and after that, if you love the game enough, you try wacky things like winning with no equipments or without taking damage. And that's what leveling up is about in commander. Next up is the importance of life game 2014 Resolute Archangel. Life is a resource, they say, and the only point of life that matters is the last, they say.

[4:47] And I bought it. Cars like Resolute Archangel that do nothing other than gain life didn't even get a second look from me. But that changed when I built a Darion deck where I punched myself in the face to get soldiers. And when my despicable opponents learned to target the medics, I lost a lot of games, usually at zero life. And that was the moment I decided to give the angel a shot just once. And wow, did it ever pull its weight. Life is a resource, but more than that, life is time. Without life gain, playing at 20 or even 10 life forces you into a completely different and suboptimal play pattern. Resolute Archangel is like a reset button. With that in hand, you can complain about getting attacked, but deep down, you know, it doesn't really matter.

[5:33] To this day, I firmly believe that every commander deck needs some way to gain life because in a format this long and swingy, every life point lost being permanent does not feel good. 2015 raised the alarm. like Very far in Arena. This card was not first printed in the year it represents here, but I was introduced to it then. And it was not the card to raise the alarm, but a way of deck building. I remember when a fresh new face at my local game store timidly dropped this card on turn two. As a self-proclaimed expert in the commander, I was thinking to myself, "Ooh, this guy's playing with draft chaff." I'mma be nice and welcoming ambassador to the community, and after the game, I'll respectfully tell him that it's okay to play these cards.

[6:13] is okay, but there are definitely room for and before I finished my thought, he stomped me and the table with cards like race the alarm and fencing ace. More about this in the Viv video, but that was like an enlightening moment for me. I realized that this guy is playing at a different level. And ever since that experience, I aimed to build decks in a similar way. Rather than staples, I'd look for more synergistic and top- down ways of building decks, especially if I can use draft chafts in the process. And next we are talking about the necessity of aggro. 2016 Saskuke the unyielding. Ever since I got bored of the civic play style, I've been looking for aggro, but playing aggro in commander is fighting uphill to say the least.

[6:54] You're using cards mostly designed for killing one opponent at 20 life trying to do the same to three opponents at 40. And the commanders just couldn't cut it. And this was until Saskia, who was there to solve that exact problem. With Saskia on board, your cards are now skilled for commander. Saskia isn't the first or last card to enable aggro in commander, but definitely one of the most iconic. It gave me the confidence to play proactively in a sea of simic players doing the rinkmanship, and the outcome was surprisingly positive. Aggro is necessary in a healthy commander meta. If we think of the meta as an ecosystem, aggro is like the wildfire. Disruptive, fastmoving, and sometimes destructive, but ultimately essential for balance and renewal.

[7:38] It clears out greedy setups, punishes overly slow starts, and keeps players honest. Without it, the table becomes a safe haven for dirtling and greed, where value engines run unchecked, and the early game stops mattering. And next on the importance of hitting your land drops, 2017, thematic compass. Now, Jourier's kite was a secret tech I learned about from podcasts of the early days, and this one had also been using all along until the upgrade came. I've always been adamant about hitting land drops, especially in non-green decks. It is what allows us to keep up the pace in mid to late game. Opponents having 11 mana while you sit at six, well, you just won't be operating in the same weight class regardless of how good the rest of your deck is.

[8:21] And every activation when you're about to miss a land drop is like a better wave bobble. And the transformation once you hit seven lands rams you with a land that can save you from the clouds and t fuss that will be running around soon enough. So yeah, hit your land drops whatever it takes. Whether it's a mainface pull from tomorrow or a wheel of fortune with seven cards in hand. Hit your land drops. 2018 generous patron. This is a lesson about card evaluation. Generous patron is a card released in battle bond and is an amazing tool for the fringe counter decks like Hopatra. But is that it? I mean, it's played in 16,000 decks. That's like five times lower than freaking fog and less than half of many partings.

[9:02] What? Now, if you look a little closer, this card is a typical trap for evaluation. These traps will either make you play a terrible card or think that a good card isn't made for your deck. Both in similar ways. Look past the distraction and generous patron is actually one of the best green ETB creatures out there. The green mold drifter, I call it. Sure, it's pumping your opponent's creatures and sometimes sometimes maybe there aren't two creatures combined among three opponents, but 90% of the time it's a three mana ETB draw too with countless synergies. The typical stables and ETB decks like Sun, Titan, Revelark, oh, and clones. Cloning the patron draws you four more cards. Sure, you might get beat up by the creatures you pump, but four more cards.

[9:46] So, yeah, evaluate cards, avoid traps. Next up, we're talking about when I'm reminded that Commander is indeed a game. Did you know that? 2019 Pendant of Prosperity. I've always taken Commander very seriously, seeing it as a test of skill where smart deck building and precise play should be what wins games. Anything beyond that feels like noise. I wanted every match to be pure substance, no fluff, no distractions. So, cards like Pendant of Prosperity frustrated me. How could a single artifact backed by a little bit of table talk generate more value than the intricate engines I spent hours refining? It felt unfair, even insulting.

[10:28] But as Wizards kept printing cards like this, the message became clear. Commander was never meant to be what I envisioned it as. It's a format built just as much on conversation and chaos as it is on technicality. Trying to strip it down to pure optimization wasn't just unrealistic. It missed the point. Commander is a game of variance, politics, and social nuance. And at some point, I had to accept that. Embracing those elements doesn't weaken the format. It's what makes it unique. 2020 Croxa: Titan of Death's Hunger. Ever had a commander that looks so cool to you, but you just had no idea how to build? Croxa was that for me. The abilities are cool, but simply isn't impactful enough for commander.

[11:12] If you want Croa to stick around, you need to self mill. But then Croxa eats that self-mill five cards at a time, which makes it hard to build any kind of cohesive graveyard strategy. And after all that work, you get a 66 with a decent discard ability, but it's just not worth all the effort. So, I shelfd it. Occasionally looking back with lingering frustration at a card that wasn't designed for commander until one day something hit me. Croakkes isn't about the escape cost, and it isn't about that one-time trigger on first cast either. It's about a two- mana creature that comes with a cast trigger, ETB trigger, and dying trigger. The 66 body is also relevant.

[11:53] So, I built the deck around the idea to get Croa onto the battlefield as many times as possible, whether through recasting or reanimating and start squeezing value from those triggers. And once I leaned into that plan, a whole world of synergy opened up. There are so many cards that enable and reward that kind of recursion and redundancy. My experience with Crosa gave me a little more confidence in deck building. With close to 30,000 unique cards and magic, no matter which commander, especially one printed in the modern era, you can make it work. Maybe keep it on the shelf until an idea hits like I did, or build first and continue to tune and upgrade. Either way, don't give up on that legendary creature you love.

[12:33] Magic finds a way. 2020 Dig Up. Dig up is a lesson on opportunity cost. Commander is iconic for its giant flashy place with cards with high ceilings and those are what we remember from game to game. But at the same time, Wizards has been secretly pushing cards with high floors as well. And dig up is a great example of that. Imagine the opportunity cost of playing a card can sometimes be simplified down as does it replace itself or one level above that. How close is this to a land? I've never really figured out how to properly evaluate cards like dig up, but as long as you have a green source, it's like a tack land, which makes the four really high. But at the same time, is it high enough to replace a land like the MDFC2?

[13:18] This is something I'll continue to think about as they continue to release these cards. But I've learned to be excited about an upgrade to a simple effect as I am for giant splashy spells. These high floor cards are what keep the deck together and flowing so that you can hope to reach for the ceiling. 2022 Evelyn the covetous. Whether it's due to shrinking design space or growing demand for top- down designs from universes beyond is becoming increasingly rare to see simple, elegant legendary creatures. More and more new commanders feel like a mashup of loosely connected abilities which can make deck building frustrating and unintuitive. At first glance, Evelyn seemed like just another one of those.

[13:59] She exiles cards from the top of opponent's libraries whenever a vampire enters the battlefield. But vampire tribal doesn't work with stealing cards from opponents. And I wrote it off as another incohesive legend design. But then I realized that the vampire part is just distraction. The exile and steel ability is the only one that matters here. And I'm sure CEDH players have come to the same conclusion. So, I built a deck that is all about cloning and blinking Evelyn, exiling two and then four more and six more cards from each player. Suddenly, I have endless fuel and the very real possibility of winning via milling or just sheer resource advantage.

[14:39] The deck is a blast. With many of today's complex commanders, cohesion doesn't always come from the surface level synergies. Sometimes you have to peel back the layers, find the engine that actually works, and build around that. 2023, the Eternal Wonder. Fairly early in my commander career, I wrote off playing stalkers for the most part. Either you play one or two, they'll just be free target practice for opponent creatures, or if you play super friends, you end up with no friends. There's no in between. For years, I've been neglecting every Planaineswalker not named Ugan until I saw the Eternal Wonder. Not that it's extremely powerful or anything, but the minus ability drew direct comparison to another powerful card from back in the day.

[15:21] tragic arrogance. Now, the wanderer is of course weaker, but similar enough for me to take another look. And this got me to look at more of the new planes walkers, and I realized that many of them have powerful enough effects that almost justify the cost. And sometimes if you get a second activation, that's just great value. The Eternal Wonder reminded me to take a closer look at a lot of the Planaineswalkers, and I've certainly found a few gems. 2024 Paul Jamar Illusionist. Let's be honest here. How many of you didn't know this card existed? Well, I didn't. One of the best draw spells for any blue tribal deck. Another Titan of Lara. Almost.

[16:02] And it just completely slipped under my radar. Heck, I was even looking into human tribal. Nowadays, there are just too many magic cards being released, too many sets, subsets, commander decks, and keeping track of things can be difficult, exhausting even. But sometimes we need a reminder we don't need to. As commander players, we don't have to keep up with constantly shifting metas like modern and standard folks. Sure, there's always hype around the hot new cards, but let's be real, the vast majority of them won't make a dent in your regular meta, barring the absolute offenders. Imagine if you don't update your deck for two whole years and take it to the average table. Will your game be much different?

[16:43] Probably not. Heck, even some well-tuned lists from 10 years ago can probably perform fine. It's easy to fall into a mindset of scarcity where we feel like we need to have everything and get bothered by what we're missing. But it's actually the mindset of discovery that makes commander and magic as a whole truly fun. It's about discovering cool cards you never seen before, finding hidden gems that fit your favorite decks, adding to your collection one card at a time. Today, Commander is not a game of FOMO. Just play and collect at your own comfortable pace. And finally, we hit 2025, the year where I re-examined the fundamentals of magic, lands.

[17:23] The card is Lindlum, Industrial Regency. When they released the original kamigawa cycle of lands, the most famous of which being Minamo, people lost their minds. In a vacuum, these are just better than basics. And that's something Magic was really careful about doing again until Aldra when they released this cycle of amazing lands. Yep. This is them taking another swing and will probably cool off for a while. I thought basic land upgrades or even side grades is the dangerous territory. Right. Right. MDFC's channel lands more and more and more. Even the one mana cyclingers are basically MDFC's. There's no sign of them stopping.

[18:04] And with the townships in Final Fantasy, finally, I'm forced to take a closer look at my land base. I mean, these are just so pushed. Early game, their lands, and late game, you get the spell and the land of all. And who knows what pushed pack sellers they'll come up with in the future. Generically good just isn't enough anymore. Nowadays, even with basic land side grades, we have to be looking at synergy. Do I really need another piece of removal or a flexible late game threat? This does add another layer to deck building. Maybe I'm late to the party on this one cuz I used to just throw BU and Awara into every deck, but I think this is a nice new challenge that we didn't really have before and adds to the overall commander deck experience.

[18:46] And finally, we are at the end. And for those of you sticking till now, I want to do a little something, a giveaway celebrating 100 subs. Now, I'm not going to advertise this anywhere else, just to you. and how to do it. Just uh I guess leave a genuine comment about what topic you wish to see next. Anything. Perhaps a deck list I mentioned in this video or maybe elaborating more on one of the lessons here. In exactly one week from the posting of this video, I'll do two things. First, I'll randomly pick from the comments to give out $20 on PayPal. And the only conditions you need to be subscribed. That's it. And second, I'll make a video for the most uploaded topic.

[19:26] I'll be doing more of this in the future at 200 subs, 500 subs, and the prize will be bigger and bigger. But yeah, for now, thank you. Thank you for watching. Commander is a journey where I'll continue to learn and level up. And I'm so blessed to have you all with me. I'll see you soon. My swear.
