# We NEED to Take Another Look at 3-drop Rocks
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/xVGfUGv8dqU
date: 2025-08-21 | views: 22,178 | likes: 981 | comments: 255 | length: 8:01 | words: 1,667 | wpm: 208.4
tags: #MTG, #MTGDeckbuilding, #ManaRocks, #Commander, #EDH

[0:00] Three drop mana rocks are crap. Years ago, this used to be the lukewarm take in commander that I didn't quite agree with. I mean, look at dark steel ingot is pretty much like ramping a land, right? And commander sphere early game mana late game Kentrip. The lockets aren't terrible either. Yeah, this was way back. But since then, Wizards has shown me over and over how off I was with my card evaluation by tacking more and more utility onto these three mana rocks, proving just how underpowered they were for most of Commander's history. And now we need a closer look at these rocks because they've maintained the floor of three mana at one, but offer so much varied utility that it's getting difficult to write them off.

[0:40] And you're welcome to join me. This is Jyn with Next Level Commander. My apologies for the lack of updates in the past 2 weeks. I was a bit caught up with life and work. Speaking of work, this channel is only around 99,000 subscribers away from becoming a full-time gig. So, please like and subscribe and help me get there. Okay. Anyways, today we're going to look at some of the most underrated rocks from the olden days to the newest spoilers from Avatar. And by underrated, the definition is simple here. seeing less play than Dark Steel Ingga, which is a fine card, but it's getting more and more difficult to justify playing over some of these new options. So, Scryfall for three mana rocks and sort them from least to most popular.

[1:22] The first one that pops up is the Waring Triad. Now, I know the card is kind of new and I think people are glossing over the mana rock part and evaluating this as something else. And to be fair, it does do a lot. Getting eight cards into the grave isn't too too difficult, especially in graveyard decks where this will shine with its middle ability. A five trample flying is excellent on offense or defense. And imagine top decking this in the late game. Just drop it and smack someone for five. And interestingly, the mana ability says target player. So there are some political implications if you are the friendly type. And if not, this also commits crimes. I mean, Giza and Maressa decks are sleeping on this according to EDHRE. Don't. It's sweet. Yeah, we started off with a high bar to clear, and this is a great example to show how pushed these modern-day manaliths are in all the right ways.

[2:09] And our next candidate is Bliss Ball. I already kind of made a video about this one, but to sum it up, this is a mana rock to power out your commander and then you can immediately cash it in for two cards, and that's excellent, excellent value for decks that are not green or blue. It also triggers off opponents attacking each other, so you'll most likely get to crack it fairly quickly. The trick here is unlike commander sphere which you can hold until the last minute with bliss ball you want to be aggressive in sacrificing it. Say you might be missing the next land drop or two just send it. Combined with white's small stuff reanimation theme. This card alone can keep a mono white or a borrow stack relevant in the late game single-handedly. Now from the world of Final Fantasy to Doctor Who Laser Screwdriver.

[2:51] Now Sonic Screwdriver is much more popular and is a great card, but laser feels like it should be in far more decks. Tapping an artifact isn't really useful until my friend Alex warps in a bllight steel classes with some weird alien commander. I don't know. But being able to surveil as a mana sync is excellent and gold at instant speed is just one of the strongest abilities you can get on a rock. This is worth trying in any non-green deck that operates at instant speed and bonus points if it cares a bit about the top deck or the graveyard. Okay, universes beyond is getting a bit out of hand. It's finally time for inun. Just kidding. It's fall out. The bobbleheads are not really worth playing. You need two to three on the battlefield to do anything meaningful. And that means you need like four or five in your deck except for one, the agility bobblehead.

[3:36] Haste and unblockable is massive in the late game. And this doesn't even have the dreaded sorcery speed only cost. Whether it's turning a late game top deck into an immediate threat, sending your Voltron commander in for one final hit, or just as a political tool, this is worth another look at. Next up, Progenitor's Icon. Now, this card isn't exactly underrated. It's a typo stable, I'm guessing. But what makes it interesting is the ability to do work in plenty of other decks as well. Just being able to flash a commander in can be invaluable for plenty of decks. Ones where the commander is expensive and slow to turn on while being a removal magnet or decks that operate mostly at instant speed where you'd always want to keep your options open.

[4:16] Also, Voltron commanders for protection and pseudo haste. The list goes on. The next one I've been trying to sell to my play group since release, but no luck. And I want to hear your thoughts. The Celestus. Another card that has utility far beyond the obvious intended use in werewolf decks. Getting to loot in one life is excellent value, especially when it's free. Switching from day to night can be difficult, but it's possible if your pot includes draw players or you happen to be one yourself. Activating it manually also isn't the worst option because it's pretty much a guarantee that someone will revert it back to day, letting you two lose and two life. Also, the bonus of introducing night and day to the game. I mean, once it's in, it's in. It's permanent.

[4:57] Just constantly remind your opponents and make dumb jokes pointing at your watch. Good times. And now, if the Celestus is too fiddly for your liking, the next one is absolute bomb. All fate squirrel. I'm tempted to call this the strongest three mana rock in commander, but I'm not even sure I should be evaluating this as a mana rock. It's like a blue sun zenith attached to a rock for any color. No, you don't even need to be playing a land stack or a ton of colors. I mean, I immediately swapped this in for commander fierce in all of my Boros decks. And by the time you crack it, it's easily five to seven cards. Expensive to activate, yes, but taking a turn off to completely refill your hand is a luxury that many less privileged decks have never seen before.

[5:38] even in monocolored. Heck, even in colorless. This is like causal like levels of card draw in the late game. All on a mana rock. And to round things out, we have a card yet to be released from Avatar. Benders water skin. This is the kind of card that many need to play to see its value. But imagine a control deck that operates at instant speed. A commander sphere will net you five mana on turn four, but Bender's Water Skin can potentially be three mana on your turn, plus three more on your opponent's turn, and another one after that. Insane value in decks that can maximize it. Also worth mentioning, I do enjoy a lot of decks that are overly dependent on a powerful commander, backed up by protection, of course.

[6:18] For example, Both and Baritl. I built him with Noble Heritage as the background, and the goal is to keep Both around and never having to worry about combat again and eventually kill people with Both Voltron damage. Seems good. But the entire game plan falls apart without Bale. Now, bail I normally don't drop until I have six mana, five for casting and one to keep it alive for the turn. Bender's water skin allows me to reach this point two turns early, making it one of the best cards to see in the opening hand, I imagine. Now, can three drop mana rocks really compete with two drops? I am not sure. Probably not. Because because no matter how fancy they are and how high they push the ceilings of these cards, we have to evaluate them based on the floor.

[6:58] And these are mana rocks. We want them to make mana. It's almost like lands that entertap versus the ones that don't. There's no comparison. And the difference between two and three mana rocks is massive if you think about it because they produce a mana. So the net cost for arcing signate is actually one while commander sphere costs two. That's double. And this is why you can often times sneak in an arcing signant or a talisman without disrupting your turn too much. But it's much more difficult or precisely twice as difficult to do that with three mana rocks. But all things considered, I think it's wonderful that Wizards has realized the need to push three mana rocks and going ham with it in the past couple of years. And finally, many of them are actually worth another look alongside your Arcing Signness and Talisman.

[7:40] Are there some other hidden gems which I've glossed over? Please let me know in the comments. This is Jyn with Next Level Commander. I do a lot of deck tags and random hidden gem videos like this one. And in the future, I'm looking to do some gameplay videos which can be very exciting. So yeah, if you enjoy this content and look forward to more, please like and subscribe and I'll see you in the next video.
