# This Deck Teaches Your Group To Play More Removals (in EDH)
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/YUyE5kri7XI
date: 2025-07-13 | views: 3,626 | likes: 161 | comments: 16 | length: 5:31 | words: 1,064 | wpm: 193.4
tags: #Commander, #MTG, #Kresh, #EDH, #DeckTech, #MagicTheGathering

[0:03] Does this sound familiar? Someone plays a threat you know will take over the game and then surprisingly it does. How about when the board gets so clogged up that every creature in turn and leaving has 12 different triggers? And how about when Jimmy says I have an answer for that and when the time comes Jimmy taps two and a white for the protection. You've changed Jimmy. If this all sounds too familiar, your group probably lacks interaction. And this is understandable. Everyone wants to do their own things, and nobody wants to eat their vegetables. But it's easy to forget that it's slightly more difficult to do your own thing when you're dead. Be the change you want to see does not work in commander.

[0:45] It's like when I came up with my 30 removal flops deck, people play even greedier, expecting me to deal with every threat. So I have learned in commander if you want to see change you need to be the problem exacerbate it take the elephant in the room and paint it neon pink and today we are doing just that we're looking at a deck that first took form 14 years ago when I was relatively new back then the sky was blue and I was happy until one day the mopplasm player in my group bought a lord of extinction that's the kind of card that has newer players in disbelief when they first read it. But the older players have seen it all. Yeah. Dice to removal.

[1:26] Sure it does. But once in a while there were games where the Lord of Extinction, sometimes with the help of a bend wonder, just killed one opponent after another. And when it got to me, I learned an important lesson in magic. When you don't have it, you don't have it. Click subscribe for more life lessons. But that got me thinking. If a simple big dumb vanilla creature can have a chance of catching people with their pants down, what if I played a bunch of them? And just around that time came with Aison restored the mighty malignance. And that made the decision really easy. I was going junded. And you may have already guessed why I'm bringing this deck up now.

[2:06] But besides that, to this day, the role it fills is not only still relevant, but needed. The sheer absurdity of dying to a simple attacking creature is enough to make people pick up a few more swords to plowshares and reality shifts next time they build a deck. The deck is led by crush the bloodb braided partly because seeura wasn't available back then. But even now I find Zeura to be a little bit too telegraphed. The fling being displayed in the command zone versus being hidden in your hand can lead to very different responses from your opponents. The idea is to play the biggest creatures in J. Lord of Extinction, Hamlet, Back Goliath, Managor, Hydra, Fyrax, and Devourer, Malignus, Realm Seekers, Yargo, and Motani, and Motani himself, and of course, Jumbo Cactar.

[2:52] Actually, the Cactar doesn't synergize well at all with a lot of the cards we have, but it also works too well with some others, and you just can't say no to cactus, man. Meanwhile, wall of blood and fireex processor will cost a lot of life, but we will get that all back. I promise. Still not big enough? we can pump even further. Xeno Ghost is my favorite here because it just sticks on the board and your opponents will always have to play around a surprise 4040 malignance on their doorstep. And once we have a big boy setup or two, we have the whole package of cards putting them to work. Draw cards, gain life. Don't worry about sacrificing cuz none of that power and toughness will go to waste. It all goes to crush. And in terms of winning the game, well, we be asking questions and our opponents better have answers.

[3:37] Do you have an answer for this 4040 trample? Oh, you do. Uh, how about for this fling? Oh, you do. Oh, what about the trigger from this guy who's been stalking on the board? We have a package to help push damage through. Unblockable trample. And yes, blasphemous act in this deck is an evasion spell. And if combat fails, here's the plan B package. This will get damage through one way or the other. Gerard is the strongest here, and the sight of him usually means the game is near finished. With so much big action, we definitely need lots of ramp. We try to play some that are more synergistic with the game plan, but some of the classics like cultivate and kodama screech are just uh too good to pass up.

[4:18] And once we have the core of the deck, we sprinkle in some miscellaneous utility. Removals and board wipes. With the amount of ramp we have, we can go a bit greedy with mana cost. And when you're greedy, decree of paying is one of the best cards in black. Draw recursion. The deck requires a lot of pieces to come together. So tutors are extra useful, but in black and green, there are plenty of other options if you want to avoid the expensive game changers. Sneak attack doesn't have the best synergy with a lot of the creatures in the deck, but when you go off and draw 20 to 30 cards, it's one of the best cards you can have in that group. And then round things up with some more utility lands and we are set. So there you have it. The elephant in the room in commander deck form.

[4:58] There are some fairly expensive cards in this list, but none are essential to the game plan and can be replaced by some of the budget alternatives. The deck can be a bit slow to get going at first, but once it's online, your opponents will be on the edge of their seats every turn. And after a few flings, you will start seeing more responsible interactive play patterns from your group, which is because then you can pivot to the greedy no interaction decks yourself. And that of course was the real plan all along. Thanks for watching.
