# Are We Playing Game Changers WRONG?
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/Z6q-CJ0gUYY
date: 2025-08-29 | views: 3,526 | likes: 241 | comments: 162 | length: 8:12 | words: 1,673 | wpm: 204.5
tags: EDH, MTG, Commander, Magic the Gathering, Gamechangers, Game Changers, Deck Tech, Decklist

[0:00] So, you splurged for some game changers, added them into your decks, excited to see some game changing, and then you just don't draw them all night. Now, these cards probably costed you hundreds of dollars and an entire bracket. But there's still just a few cars out of a hundred. If you draw them, you're bracket three, and if you don't, you're back to bracket two. How does that work? That seems anticlimatic. Well, I'm glad you're here. This is Jyn with Next Level Commander and today we're talking about how to actually change games with these powerful Magic cards by boosting your chance of seeing them and more importantly maximizing their power when you do. If you enjoy this kind of content, please like and subscribe and let me know what kind of topics you'd want to see in the future.

[0:41] But I know what people like. People like TLDDRs. So, here's a TLDDR. Do not play cards. Play packages. A package commander can be a toolbox of cards that are tied together by certain tutors. And ideally, they have synergies with each other. Take the example of cyclonic rift, which goes into spells slinging decks, wheel decks, and decks that have islands. So, let's say spells slinger decks. Tutoring is quite challenging if you're missing black. So, the few that are available, we cherish. Mystical tutor of course goes without saying, but spellseeker is also crazy powerful, especially if you have a decent utility package that can be seek. Not exactly a hidden gem, I know, but it's less about the card itself and more about how we lay out the package. say in a spells slinger deck, you probably want to play Snowcaster Mage.

[1:25] But hold up, we should go nowhere near Snapcaster until we look at this card first. Mission briefing because synergies mission briefing can be spelled and more interestingly, Mission Briefing allows you to overload Cyclonic Rift from the graveyard, which Snapcaster doesn't. So now it's almost like having two cyclonic rifts that you can tutor for with Spellseeker. Now that's a neat little package, and it doesn't end here. Snapcaster Mage is probably still really good in your deck. So, we play it. And now, if your deck also has other powerful wizards, maybe we can take a look at Riptide Laboratory. And maybe, just maybe, an expedition map to grab the land. How about a trinket mage who's also a wizard for the map? And before you know it, it's time for wizard cycling.

[2:05] Okay, maybe we're going a little bit too far. You can choose to cap this package at any point or expand it into whatever direction depending on what other powerful cards are in your deck. Individually powerful cars interconnected within this network of tutors and synergies is how these game changers actually change games. Now tutoring and recurring are the easiest ways to achieve that. But the packages can go deeper. Let's take a look. Well, we can't have a conversation about game changers without the one ring, can we? It's just a ridiculous, ridiculous Magic card I think the format is probably better off without. But this is a channel about winning commander games, not about maintaining friendships. So, the one ring, we want to maximize the card draw while bailing ourselves out of the life payment.

[2:45] Mount Doom goes without saying if you're in the right colors, but fiery core is also not terrible if you have other artifact synergies. It can deal with the burden if it becomes too much. Midgard does something similar and the Michael synin garden is also an excellent land, allowing us to reset the ring and start all over again with the help of the legends rule. And finally, minamo to untap the ring and go nuts with the draw. The reason we're starting with lens is also an expression of our philosophy here. We are not jamming in new cards, but rather we make minor adjustments to cards that the deck already wants. Say if you play village rise type effects. Make sure they can sacrifice artifacts too. Got counter spells maybe three steps ahead deserves a look for potentially copying the one ring.

[3:25] If you play three drop manors, try Sonic Screwdriver for the untapping. And if you have clones in your deck, Farrexian Metamorph is the only card mentioned here that can copy the ring while also giving us another round of protection. Does your deck care about artifacts? Well, academy runes with the one ring is just brutal. Brutal. I know we're not about making or keeping friends here, but pro tip, do not let your friend count drop below three or you might have some trouble starting commander games, but don't let it go too high either. Don't really want to talk about it, but in college, I had enough friends to end up in a nineplayer commander game. Never made that mistake again. Anyways, and now we're moving on to less direct synergies, but rather more subtle enablers that premeates through your entire deck.

[4:07] Not every game changer is worth doing this for, but some are. Bola Citadel, for example, can probably win more games than any other card in your deck, including your commander, if it fires. Well, then we better make sure it fires. The Citadel is only limited by two things. Your top deck and your life total. And in a black deck, you're most likely paying life everywhere. So tacking on some life gang is essential either way. If we're in an aristocrat deck, things are easier with Kokusho and Grey Merchant. But if you decided they're not quite for you, we'll have to do a bit more thinking. If you're aggressive, cards like Wishes Clinic can be massive. If you also happen to be in white, Vault of the Archangel and Achromos Wool are must haves. Maybe replace your life paying board wipes into ones that gain life.

[4:50] And if you're doing graveyard shenanigans, Whip of Arabs might deserve another look, even if it isn't the most efficient. Now, for top deck manipulation, fetchlands are of course the best of the best, and they also enable cards like top and squirrel rack, which is an excellent start to a package. And instead of draw spells and unsatable avarice may just win you the game when paired with the citadel. And of course, the artifact synergies, if your deck leans that way, buried ruin to recur it and mentor sphere to tutor for it and get some life. And as you can see, we are slowly merging these packages with our entire deck, which is what we want as long as it's adding to or working alongside rather than distracting from what the deck wants to be doing originally. One last example to hit home.

[5:32] If you play notion thief, you probably also have an opposition agent. But then we would want more of the deck to also operate at instant speed as much as possible like morphs and fortell. Instance and flash work best when you have others like them. Instant speed draw, instant speed removals, flash creatures. Heck, if your deck is creature heavy, Winding Cannons is crazy underrated and perfect for any creature-based deck. Emergence Zone is great, too, if your deck wants to take massive turns once in a while. You get the idea. Now, interestingly, what we're doing here doesn't just apply to game changers. Surprise. Any powerful individual card needs a support system to reach its full potential. Playing Italy, you better have at least three haste enabling lands. Playing Living Death, all the sack outlets.

[6:13] Seedore Muse, while it's not quite powerful enough to warrant adding in specific cards to enable it, prioritizing lands with mana sync abilities seems like a good idea. Scrying, making a token, or even wolf running becomes really good if you're doing it on every opponent's turn. And if your deck has powerful creatures that can take over games all on their own, maybe tack on some protection spells onto your removals and board wipes. And if Aison is among them and you find yourself having a few too many friends, sneak in a catastrophe instead of your average board wipe. You might just steal some games you otherwise have no business winning. Okay, there you have it. Instead of playing individual cards, you want your deck to be as interconnected as possible.

[6:54] Packages and packages of packages. At first, we may be limited to cards that directly reference each other, but soon enough we can see the less direct interactions that contribute to the overall direction and momentum of your deck. and you will feel the difference. I promise. Okay, this is Jyn with Next Level Commander. Many of you probably came from my previous video about mana rocks. Okay, so you watched a video of someone with barely any subscribers. You subscribed and you watched another video till the end. That's about the best thing you can possibly do for a small channel. And I really, really appreciate it. I should be doing a giveaway. Yeah, I should. I mean, I reached 1,000 subs thanks to you. So, you know what? I'm not going to announce this anywhere else, just here.

[7:37] For those of you who are sticking till the end, I'll give out $100 worth of value. Not sure what exactly. Might be difficult to manage depending on your location. But worst case, I'll just send a PayPal transaction. That works. So, how to enter? Please subscribe to the channel and like the video if you liked it. Don't bother if you didn't. There's no way for me to check. Uh comment below on what topic you like to see next. the comment with the most likes, I'll make a video about and I'll randomly pick a subscriber in the comments to send $100 to. Seems good. That seems good. Thank you again. I'll see you soon.
