# Aang Enables the Most EFFORTLESS Blink Deck I've Ever Seen  | Commander-Centric Deck Tech
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/ZGYpjm2S46E
date: 2025-11-12 | views: 5,537 | likes: 124 | comments: 31 | length: 8:01 | words: 1,550 | wpm: 193.7
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 0:18 The Commander and Gameplan; 1:22 The Toolbox; 2:51 The Blink Spells; 3:32 The Enablers; 4:03 The APPA PHASE; 5:16 The Lands
tags: Avatar, Mtg, Magic the Gathering, Aang, Aang at Crossroads, EDH, Deck, Deck Tech, Commander, Universes Beyond

[0:00] Avatar came with the best commander centric legend I've seen in a long time. Commander ccentric is a way of building EDH decks that leans entirely on the commander. It often features really linear and consistent play patterns. Practice one punch a thousand times kind of deal. And our main character today is Ang at the crossroads and the flip side a destined savior. Now this card suffers from the same problem many other universes beyond commanders do. The design is way too complicated. is like a freaking book and the abilities don't really have much synergy with each other. So, as usual, we just completely ignore the weaker abilities and focus on the text that matters. And this is a sweet paragraph of rules text.

[0:43] I'm surprised that this never existed on another card in the past. But building around this will allow us to keep the play pattern simple and linear, but have completely random outcomes in different games. We are technically only playing with our commander but winning with a massive toolbox of creatures. Hello, this is Jyn with Next Level Commander. If you're interested in the commander centric play styles and other uniquely powerful decks, please subscribe and let me know if you have commanders that can work well with this philosophy. So, the game plan here is simple. We cast Ang and blink. That's pretty much all we do until we reach the oppase and that's when we can close out games pretty quickly. More on that later. Now, let's quickly go over our toolbox of mystery.

[1:25] No one knows if we are coming up with the wrench or the screwdriver next, but they're all useful. Starting with ramp, we have nine pieces. One of the biggest obstacles here is an cast costing five mana. And ideally, when casting him, we want some mana up to blink at least once for protection. Unlike many other commandercentric decks though, we do have action early and don't mind waiting till turn six or seven to cast our commander. I mean, the deck is filled with lowc cost utility creatures. Uh, but yeah, we still want our commander out as soon as it's safe. Next up, answers. Ben is the color combination that can answer literally anything. So, we have a decent variety. Creatures, non-creatures, graveyard, and even spells.

[2:07] We also have a few clones. These are probably some of the best cards to blink. The deck is pretty light on win conditions, so we'll definitely be feasting on our opponents crater hooves and Avengers. The draw choices here are quite unusual. Riverwise Augur is great because it's like a brainstorm that can set up our next flip. Mo Drifter is five mana, so we have the equivalent dream entrancer. Just stun angs. Generous patron is another personal favorite, drawing two on ETB on most board states. And finally, recursion. In the early game, these are most likely returning a blink spell for another role. But later on when we have some doubling shenanigans, these turn into win conditions that can swarm our opponents with value.

[2:50] For blink spells, we are going heavy with 21. Starting with some of the typical choices, we do want a few slow blink options to protect Ang from board wipes. And these mass blink effects are straight up value town when we have a decent board. Restoration angel is a four drop, so it just resets Ang while adding a free three for flyer to the board. That's the floor. And again with any doubling effect we are going to value town. Thasa gives us an indestructible blink outlet every turn while Emo the bless is the best mana sync in the mid to late game. Deck seems simple enough. Blink ang to get random creatures. Blink him again for another seems fair but fair is not what we're looking to do here. At least not in the late game. Enter the enablers.

[3:32] Starfield vocalist and roaming throne are both anable. Anable. Yeah. Not sure about this one. but they will double up the ETB triggers. With roaming throne, we choose humans because we have like 10 of those in the deck. Preston is another doubler that I've always wanted to find a deck for and is perfect here. And for some card advantage, arch mage ameritus gives Kentrip to all our blink spells while Mavinda allows us to use them twice. Displacer kitten needs no introduction is game changer levels of gamechanging in this deck. And most importantly, remember when I teased the oppase earlier? Yeah, this is where we bulldoze the table by first yelling, "Yep, yep, &gt;&gt; yep, yep." &gt;&gt; And drop one of these creatures, led by Apa, of course.

[4:15] Being able to crash in and allow us to reuse all the ETB effects for two mana is strong. But actually, AA is the weakest of the bunch. Lumber Battleman, for example, will straight up exile all our creatures and trigger all the ETBs at once when it leaves. So, yeah, the moment one of these beasts come in, we are no longer blinking our commander. We are blinking these and going nuclear. Abdo Adrien as well. Glorious protector is glorious because it can be found with Ang. But even at five mana, these effects are well worth hard casting for how quickly they will take over games. Oh, and Urion, very similar effect. For non-creatures, we have Cream of the Crop. Every angrier sets us up for the next one perfectly. And Squack is perfect for this deck as well.

[4:57] To round out the non-land cards, we have a few tutors to the top of the deck, of course, to get out key enablers. And Court of Calling is pretty much get any creature from the deck for close to free considering the board state will usually have. And that wraps up the non lens. The land base here is actually really interesting. I know I said we are ignoring the backside, but it does have some sweet synergy with lands. And it doesn't cost much to adjust the land base. And by that I mean the opportunity costing deck building, not in terms of price because holy crap, earthbending is ridiculous with fetch lens. We are probably flipping our commander quite often anyways. I mean, it's not going to save flipped because blinks, but entering combat with Ang destined savior won't be uncommon.

[5:38] And when we do, the fetchlands become free rampant growth. And all these sacrifice effects will net us one extra land. Now, when we get to Earthbend, I'd say four times out of five, it will be put onto a fetchland. So, we don't need to go nuts with these sacrifice effects. Just one for draw, one for life gain, and one reusable emergence. So, that that's pretty fun. And of course, a strip mine. Outside of the self-sacrifice lens, ETB effects like Mosport Bridge can also be reused. I mean, it's not sacrificing itself, but it will probably die to natural causes like wrath of God or some showdown, and you can always include it with your mass blink turns. Another angle to approach this is the indestructible lens. Getting a few indestructible blockers can come in handy, and it's a fun perk that very few commanders can provide.

[6:23] And that's the deck. The play pattern is fairly simple and straightforward. Play some early creatures to interact and when the time comes, drop ang and blink away. Blink in response to removal, blink in response to opponent shenanigans, blink at the end of turn or blink just because you want to. And eventually we enter the apuff phase. We overwhelm with value and yip yip our way into the sunset. The deck is not too explosive because of the expensive commander, but definitely resilient. Once N is on the field, there's really not much your opponents can do about it. The deck is really easy to play. For a good chunk of the game, you're just doing one action over and over. Maybe once in a while you choose a target or two, but when you start doubling up and mass blinking, it might get a bit more complicated, but I'm sure your table will help you figure out things just to get it over with.

[7:11] And the deck is mid-budget. It can get expensive if you want to maximize its potential, and some of the most interesting enablers are costly. But again, a budget version can easily perform at around 80% power for maybe a quarter of the price. And finally, this deck sits snugly in bracket three. We only have two game changers in the list. If you're looking to add another seedorn muse might be pretty strong here. And of course, you can't go wrong with Gais Cradle. And there you have it. Ang with the all-in commander ccentric deck building. And as usual, the list is in the descriptions. If you enjoy this deck, please like and subscribe. There's a bunch more down the pipeline. For example, I'm currently looking at a control deck with Ozai.

[7:53] Big mana, lots of interesting synergies. So yeah, this is Jyn with Next Level Commander, and I will see you in the next video.
