# The ONLY EDH Deck You'll Ever Need | Commander-Centric Deck Tech
channel: Next Level Commander | https://youtu.be/zhuWXoKz3-k
date: 2026-05-13 | views: 6,549 | likes: 238 | comments: 56 | length: 8:02 | words: 1,697 | wpm: 212.0
tags: EDH, Commander, MTG, Brackets, Magic the Gathering, Evelyn, Theft

[0:00] For close to two months, I played one deck almost exclusively with the same 100 cards, but with the same cards I participated in four out of five brackets and had decent success in all four. I also got to win games with half a dozen different archetypes, tokens, combo, even Voltron once. With that experience, I've reached the conclusion that if I ever quit magic and just keep one deck, this will be the one. Self-adapting with near infinite replayability. So, what is it? Evelyn the Covetous. Now, this commander is a bit like Wick in that it's got a distracting tribal clause, but it is nowhere near the best vampire commander. What Evelyn excels at is stealing, or in her words, collecting. It's got all the right wording. For example, the cards are exiled with collection counters.

[0:41] That means once you exile the cards, you can use them for the rest of the game. She also does color fixing. There are limitations though, one spell a turn for example, and only when Evelyn is on the field. But do not worry, we got those patched. The important thing here is Evelyn is crazy efficient at accumulating cards. Every blink gives us four cards, one from each player, and every clone eight. So, that's pretty much the entire deck. We have no win condition and everything is sponsored by our opponents. And that's what allows us to adjust to the brackets. Whether it's has tribal or two card combo, we can make it work. Brackets one, two, and three are very doable. Brackets four and five can be a bit challenging. My solution to this though is going ham with ramp. Yeah, no holding back, 23 pieces. This way, we can overwhelm with resource advantage and as usual, our commander will recoup the lost cards.

[1:25] The game plan is simple, we ramp, keep Evelyn alive, and blink her as much as possible. Starting with these single use ones. These are mostly for protection actually, and I wouldn't use them on their own unless I'm desperate for a new set of cards. Also, these undying and reanimation effects, while we're not playing a ton of sac outlets, we can kill Evelyn pretty easily with all these clones. Yeah, these are super efficient and we are packed. We are playing with all the three mana or lower options and they all come with different perks. Like these reusable ones are excellent. Also, something like devastating onslaught which scales. Now, this is better than cloning twice because the tokens enter at the same time. And with this one card, say if we pay five mana, we're getting six triggers. That's sweet value. And my personal favorite, Saw in Half.

[2:05] Imagine using Saw in Half with one of these undying effects. That's seven triggers, a total of 28 cards exiled from just that one exchange. The Mirror Room is also perfect for this deck, being a cheap budget clone, but also a Panharmonicon if you have extra mana. Oh, we also do play the actual Panharmonicons. We're willing to pay more, but they have to do something pretty amazing. The Apprentice is fully, for example, creates non-legendary tokens twice, and these are excellent because having multiples on the board doubles all of our future triggers, and it bypasses the once per turn restriction. We get one card per Evelyn copy, and it snowballs fast. For that, we also have Sakashima, Spark Double, and Quantum Misalignment. Every deck needs a magical Christmas land dream, and Autumn Soldier is ours.

[2:46] Very expensive, very slow, but if we can just get one myriad trigger, we are set for the entire game, and probably the next two games as well. Literally generational wealth. Math quiz, I had Evelyn and copied with Autumn Soldier. Now, I attack and get myriad. I have three opponents. How many cards do I 32. Seems good. Seasons of Weaving is mostly here for making two tokens at the same time, getting us a minimum of six triggers. But every mode is useful, the flexibility is excellent. For blink, the top end are Deadeye and The Cat. These come out to finish games, and we round things up with arguably the best card in the deck, Vesuvan Diplomacy. Now, this is the one card that can potentially win the game all by itself, and that's pretty much the entire game plan.

[3:28] Again, stupid simple. I would make a 20-second deck tech for this, but I don't think we have enough content to fill the duration. Simple, 37 lands, 36 pieces of blink and clone, extra triggers, and 23 pieces of ramp. All of the two-mana options, we're also using all the game-changer slots here, because mana is really our only restriction. Worth mentioning here is the Cursed Mirror, being both a clone and a mana rock. It does not get better than this. Bender's water skin is excellent because we will be doing a lot of things at instant speed and being able to make a mana on everyone's turn is so much value. Now, even more value than that is the relic of legends. Evelyn will die, will be blinked, it will come in and out, it's going to be cloned, and often times the relic will make what, four or five mana a turn, which is ridiculous for a three drop mana rock.

[4:15] And black market connections, now this is not a mana rock, but it's close enough because importantly, this gives us a vampire token every turn. And that leaves us with three more card slots and we're giving those to flash enablers. Unlike many other commanders, Evelyn's ability says once per turn, and that's something we can definitely take advantage of. As for lands, it's nothing special, some sack outlets, some protection, also ramp and a bit of generic utility. Mana fixing is important, but we do have enough rocks and also Evelyn fixes mana for opponent's cards, so we're not too stressed here. So, a little bit about my experience with the deck, I played games at CEDH tables and I was actually able to win some of them. There will be times when an opponent is just way too fast for us and wins before we even get to drop Evelyn, but as long as the game is kind of interactive and goes for a few turns, Steve, there's a lot we can do.

[5:05] Just getting a few Evelyn triggers, we can hold a lot of interaction and we eventually be stealing a crab or something and take over the game. Bracket four was actually the most difficult because the meta is more diverse and decks are generally less interactive and more focused. So, we may struggle a bit trying to assemble the pieces and come up with a win. That was just my personal experience across 30 games or so, I had the most amount of success in bracket three, but for the most part, it's pretty even. My win rate in each bracket was around the same. Playing this in the lower brackets is relatively straightforward. Sure, the deck is fast, consistent, and has game changers, but again, there's no win condition, so whatever the table plays, we'll have to work with. It's self-adjusting. Actually, I wasn't able to find a bracket one game, but on paper, it should be should be doable.

[5:50] The only worry here is the card of Vesuvan Diplomacy. Now, that card can actually win games by milling people out, and that's better than most bracket one strategies. So, I decided to include a single Gaia's Cradle Sanatarium to activate once we exile everything so we lose at the same time. That's a solid bracket one victory, right? And I'm 100% serious about this being potentially the only deck I'd keep because it's commander centric and has none of the common drawbacks. It's adaptive and interactive, will have plenty of answers as long as our opponents are playing them, and we do depend very heavily on Evelyn, so it's important to be careful with when we drop her and what kind of protections we hold up. We usually don't lose access to our commander because we ramp really hard and we have enough ways to recur and reuse, but still, when your entire strategy hinges on one single card, you can never be too careful.

[6:35] The deck isn't explosive at all because, sure, we can get our commander out early and start blinking, getting a lot of cards, but we are not posing a threat to our opponents until much later in the game. The early game is used for accumulating the collection piles while interacting when necessary, but once we build up that resource, it's very difficult to run out. And if we're able to build a solid mana base as well, we have late game inevitability. I'd say this deck is quite difficult to play because, I mean, you have to be familiar with every strategy at your table, balance your game between accumulating resources and interacting, like mentioned earlier, and eventually finding the line among what 40-50 cards to end the game. A budget version of the deck is absolutely possible, but but might struggle in higher brackets due to the loss of the best ramp cards.

[7:21] Instead of the super expensive game changers, we switch to the ramp options that are more oriented for the mid-to-late game, and a budget clone like Chameleon is perfectly serviceable. Meanwhile, lands aren't super important. Just play whatever you have laying around. You don't need duals or fetches for this deck. This way, we can cut the budget down to $500, which is much more reasonable, and that's the deck. Recently, I got an affiliate link with a really cool accessory brand. They sent me some products to test and these look really cool, but I've been using their stuff way before that. So, if you're interested, take 5 seconds, look at their site, and if anything here interests you, here is my code, levels, for a discount. Thanks for watching. I'll see you in the next video.
