# Morning deckbuilding stream
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/0nYzkbsMFgE
date: 2025-07-08 | views: 5,848 | likes: 124 | comments: 4 | length: 3:17:57 | words: 22,962 | wpm: 116.1

[0:04] All right. And we are There we go. Okay, there we go. Lovely. Yep, here we go. We're good. I have All is well.

[0:45] Okay, so I am building Oh no. Oh no. You can't hear anything. Oh god. Ooh, what did I screw up? Um, video capture device audio input. Yes, I can see I can see chat now. Uh, okay. You hear me? Okay. I think I'm doing something right here. I Yeah. Yeah, it was definitely the voice was showing up in my in my when I was testing out and hearing a recording.

[1:28] So, I think it's all working good. Uh I might do deck reviews at some point uh on stream. That is not what I'm doing today. I'm just uh uh I I have this deck I need to to workshop a little bit and I figure I will just do a little bit of that. Um though I think uh I I'll probably stream some more uh MTGO gameplay probably so that should be cool and fun. I want to get like a clip of that uh streamed and recorded for my second channel.

[2:11] what I'm kind of trying to do here is, uh, yeah, card suggestions are all good. What I'm kind of trying to do here is this is a Catilda deck. Uh, I'm trying to keep it very, very low budget. So, I'm going within kind of the excluding basic lands constraint here. Um, $25ish. Uh, trying to keep it under that. And I'm trying to see how much flicker I can integrate. I think a lot of the flicker is a little bit expensive, but I'm fine if I think the flicker is probably going to be the most expensive part of the deck, but I think that's that's that's fine. Um, Contour's Cloud is definitely worth it for this sort of uh deck.

[3:00] but yeah, I think this is kind of like a white riff on Rada. I I find that there's just a ton of really good ETB white creatures um that can kind of pivot into some some later game nonsense. So, I think with like Reverend Hoplight is pretty awesome with uh Katilda, you get you get some pretty current quantity of cheap humans. I am this is I I am opting for a higher curve Katilda deck. Uh, Felia Felia is kind of on the line. Like you can you can I can fit a $2 card if it's like really good. Like I'm running Conjur's Closet currently.

[3:40] That's two bucks 50, but I think that's just so so good that it's it's probably worth it. Um, but yeah, just I'm just trying to tweak this deck and get some more filter uh get some more flicker into it. Um, I know the kind of there's several kind of flicker return to end of turn cards. that I think are pretty solid. Um, those can also be board wipe dodges. Uh, and if I add more board wipes to the deck, those can be kind, you know, I can I can turn something into a one-sided board wipe effectively. So, I think there's a lot of potential value there. Um, I think Tree Shaker Chimera isn't all that good as as draw goes.

[4:22] So, I might give that a cut for now. Yeah, Far Traveler is decent. I'm just that that one is is very cheap. It it is a, you know, very money cheap flicker engine. Uh so I think in that way it's tempting for sure. Um I just don't know if the restrictions are too intense on it. Like obviously it needs commander out. Uh which Catilda is definitely going to be a target for removal some games. Um if I get like a bunch of humans out off of something.

[5:08] So uh I I have I have the full maybe board kind of off to the side here categorized. Um, so th those are just going to be all of the cards along the right side that are kind of separated uh with with that that little bit are going to be cards that I have considered but which are not in currently. So it's kind of kind of a kind of a long list. I probably need to prune these so that the page isn't, you know, 10 miles tall. Um, whisper angel's not probably a good enough card here.

[5:51] Austere command is already something I've decided that I probably need because that's just it's just so good. Um, if I can hit lowcost creatures plus enchantments or or etc and such like um, Guardian Faith is good. How much How much is it these days? It doesn't It does not trigger my flickers though, which is the one thing that's kind of uh making me not want to put a whole lot of money into it. Uh I cards that get a bunch of humans are pretty decent acceleration, but um yeah, we'll throw that in removal.

[6:34] Yeah, cards that create humans are decent acceleration. Although I I'm I'm kind of wanting to do some amount of, you know, either ETB lands or uh kind of router style stuff. Although, honestly, drum hunter is not going to be good enough. I don't think I I don't I do not like drum hunter here. Think we're going to going to cut that. Torrance is interesting. Um, I feel like in some ways it feels a little like win more here just because uh it'll scale up to a lot of mana eventually, but this deck isn't fast enough where it's going to be getting impact immediately and I'm kind of worried that it's going to like lead into a wipe or lead into Katilda getting hated out.

[7:30] Um, I am not digging Tree Shaker It's not a bad card. I just feel like there's got to be better draw here. Genesis Storm was one I really wanted to add. Um, this is one I've considered for Rada, but I think the the fact that a lot of the creatures are Cascade makes me a little hesitant here. There is both less Cascade and I think the commander is going to be more of a target for removal. So I call this later acceleration. See sorcery. I don't know that I need to be categorizing the card type, but you know, whatever.

[8:11] It seems fine enough. Um I don't know if I want Stone Cedar Hero. It's definitely decent though. It's a very very decent card. Cultivator Colossus. I I am not doing deck reviews today. This is a This is one of my my decks that I am tuning, but I I'll probably stream some deck reviews at some point in the coming weeks because that's that's a fun thing to do.

[8:51] I am not I'm not really feeling Thunderfoot Velociere. I think this deck is a little bit slower than the Rada Vizier of Deferment. I have not heard of that. Or have I? Is that what uh No, that's Angel of Condemnation. Exile target creature if attacked or blocked this turn. I think I'm mostly trying to avoid the one-time flickers.

[9:31] I just think I can get more value than that. So, but that's it's it's definitely interesting because at a certain point you can start putting in those onetime flickers and then if you flicker your board then suddenly, you know, it turns into extra flickers. Um, uh, the deck should be linked in the comments or in the in the description. Um, it is a it is a Catilda deck that is kind of a uh rather a battle cruiser type thing. I I don't know that this is going to be a workable list quite yet, but um I am just going to see where it ends up if I if I end up feeling like it's got a lot of potential.

[10:17] That's kind of what I'm trying to do here. Um yes, I think this card is not quite what this deck is looking for. um just because it's it's it's kind of a more aggressive card. I mean, I guess it's good if I get a bunch of humans. I don't how much token creation do I have currently? Creature token. Yeah, Alex budget the build is definitely good. So, I have some creature tokens. I I these are on the chopping block so I don't even know about those. So I have like these four basically which are nice but it's not that much.

[11:09] You don't have um I I haven't really felt the need to have haste in the rotted deck. It's very much like a I find it kind of fun to to give to play a bunch of and then give people a turn to to prepare. It's one of those things where I'm sure you could make the deck more effective at killing people, but I I think it's it's perfectly fine to have it just kind of uh not be super super fast. Livio, what does Livio do?

[11:49] Livia Oaths. Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah, that's a seems like an interesting So, this deck is going to be serving a somewhat different purpose. Um, if it ends up being the deck I choose for this, uh, it's it's going to be very very budget, so I need to trim down on kind of any of the higher costed value engines and stuff. Um, no, uh, you know, no kind of case of the locked hot house, no beast whisperer.

[12:34] I'm going to be missing a lot of kind of the the draw engines there. I think the addition of white also allows the deck to pivot in a more controlling direction. Um, so that is going to be cool. There's just so much flicker you get and there's so many like white creatures with disgusting ETBs. Like if you flicker an Angel of the Ruins, like I I already know that's gross from my my shroom deck. Um, but yeah, there's just a lot of gross things you can do with with white. Also, I wasn't familiar with this card. This this card's pretty Had not seen that before. That is pretty cool.

[13:15] Honestly, a lot of these are are are kind of like Angel of the Ruins and Protector of the Wastes are are both kind of making my my Terrason look a little sad. like it's not a bad card, but it it it's it's there's a good chance it's going to end up getting cut just because there is so much better removal out there. Um, so so this this isn't going to be uh a deck I have in my normal uh pool of decks. I just wanted to build a uh a budget deck for a specific sort of budget deck purpose and just trying out a version of this.

[13:55] I also might look at some other options. I just want like a very kind of slower grindy deck. And this seemed like an interesting thing to explore a little bit just to see whether it would end up turning out interesting. Um I don't know if Sata is what I want in this deck. Zopa is very good. It's It's just like a very solid stabilizer threat. Rampaging Yaquai. Oh yeah, that's a that's a card.

[14:37] How useful that. There we go. Yeah, definitely a decent card. Although it it doesn't work with flicker is my concern. Like I guess it can mess up a bunch of like little rocks. Yeah, honestly I think uh I I excluded up the beantock from Rata because I I wanted to keep the gimmick of nothing below four mana. I just find that really fun. Um I also just don't think I need it. There's there's plenty of good value engines. Um, but in this case, I'm I'm trying to optimize a little bit more on a budget.

[15:19] So, I think uh of the Beantock makes more sense here. Although, I could still see it being worse than like some like ETB stuff. I don't know. I have not fully looked. I do need an eternal witness in here. That is that is one thing I I do need. Um cuz that if I run eternal witness the all of the like semester's end ghost way style cards become so much Yeah. So let's let's get let's get an Eternal Witness in here. Let's get our our mass flicker cards in here and then we'll see where we're at.

[16:00] So I'm going to throw this under. Is it really a Yeah. Makes sense. So, I'm going to throw that under value. Value. Draw. Sure. Draw. Toss up. Titan of Industry. Titan of Industry is decent. That's one of the ones I'm guessing I'm probably not going to spend big on uh the removal of the deck just because there's there's a lot of like flicker and draw that is a little bit more expensive.

[16:42] But um yeah, I I have I have this kind of category of various uh ETB creatures. Um Overworld Hydra honestly kind of sucks. So that's that's not going to be what I'm looking for here. mostly because this is a budget deck that's just not going to have decent lands. Um, Thorn Mammoth and Koga are ones that are a bit more likely to make it in. Timeless Witness is not bad either. Timeless Witness is definitely one I would consider for sure. Um, and I could I could see it just being the case that more copies I guess it it it is also a human, so that's probably worth just popping in right now.

[17:22] Yeah. So, let's let's get Timeless Witness in there. Um, because yeah, I think if I can start doing the the Eternal Witness uh flicker value loops, that that that I feel like is a good play pattern to start striving for if I'm looking for this to be like a really gross later game grindy deck. Yeah. So, let's get this in here. Um, I definitely have some kind of jank flicker in right now. So yeah, mainboard flicker category. I need to hit up the architect people and ask them if they can differentiate mainboard and maybe board categories.

[18:05] I love making feature requests on bushwack. Bushwrack is decent. I think my land count is high enough where I don't feel the need for bushwack. I guess I could like cut a land and have a bushwack in here, but um I would rather just run keep keep the high land count and then go from there. I'm running Eagles of the North, which is kind of similar to a bushwack. But I think that one feels a bit better because it also has an ETB.

[18:45] All right, let's get Lazel acrobatics in here. I think this card is lovely. Like it a lot. Um, and then Ghost Ways, I think, a little bit more expensive and also it's it's not really worse, I guess, cuz I don't really have one- one counters in this deck, I don't think. I should double check that for sure. Parting gust. Parting gust is decent. Yeah, I I would definitely consider that. Um I should add that to my add that to my main board and we'll take a look at it in a bit.

[19:35] Um, I was also considering some other really jank uh flicker like mirror of life track trapping is flicker in the sense that it you know can have a creature enter twice. It also flickers for my opponents. I don't know if that matters. I wonder I wonder how many hydra decks you would nail with this or like other decks that have some sort of like thing that goes on a creature based on the casting. I even know I I have no sense of how good that would be honestly. Um that's a that's a really interesting card. Like the the the the super cheap cost is is interesting.

[20:21] Eternal Dragon. I like Eternal Dragon. I don't know if this is the deck for it. Fierce Empath was one I was definitely considering. I think woodland bellowware like two something. So, it's 254. It's It's not bad. It's It's a very good Yeah, it's not No, no Cast Claws. And I am running a handful of I am running a handful of three drops. Yeah, it grabs Ewit. Ooh. Okay. Okay. Hold on here. That's That's really good. Okay. Yeah, because if I get it's only green creatures, so it would have to be Ewit or I'm probably not adding Champion of Lambhole.

[21:06] I don't think it's worth the budget. Uh but if I added Fierce Empath along with Woodland Bellware, uh maybe maybe pop torren back in. Um I think that could become really good. That's that's kind of interesting. Yeah, that's that's pretty interesting.

[21:51] Uh, is there a way to see his full list as you're editing? Uh, yeah. I mean, it um I think I have the list linked. I don't I don't know where YouTube stream show descriptions. Um, but if if not that I it's also on my architect profile. I just made it public, I think. Yanick. What is Yanick? This card sounds Oh, sure, sure, sure, sure. Yeah, Uh, so I think the great Aurora is just good in a big mana deck.

[22:35] um like you know anytime some if you're building up and somebody else is trying to kind of put together a big board put throwing down the great Aurora I think throws a mention that pretty good although I might swap it out for a different board wipe I think cuz I I'm kind of considering it a board wipe here um because it you know if I'm behind on board my opponents are head on board it's going to kind of reset that probably give me the upper hand since I have a bunch of lands out presumably if my ramping went well I I don't have a sense of how, you know, consistent this deck will be compared to the Rada deck. But that one I might swap out for for a better board wipe. Not a better board wipe, but like a more like board wipey board wipe.

[23:19] I do think cleansing Nova wants to be in here. Yes, we'll have to see about that. Okay, so I was adding Yeah, I was going to add ghost way. I think there's a$120 printing of this. So, is it that? Sure. We'll we'll take dollar8. So, that's going to go in. So, we're going to pop these in and then I just want to see if we can get the budget back down to a manageable level. Flicker instant. Sure. Okay. So, right now we are at 105 cards. $29 budget.

[24:00] So, we got a fair amount to some of these I think are just kind of bad. Like I I can't tell how good Gil Rein is. It's probably good enough. It's definitely definitely a little bit Do you have enough type variety? Uh, that's actually a good point. There's probably less type variety here than in some decks. See, where do I see that? Uh, quantity of subtypes. Human. No, you're right. You're right. You're right. I Yeah, four angels.

[24:42] Like, there's there's definitely some amount of variety here. Um, but yeah, I think 13 humans out of how many current creatures? I don't actually have a sense of how many creatures I'm running in this. I want to say like 35ish. 41 41. Okay. Yeah, I can see bad gas working out there having temple the false gods to to then fetch with so me spawn plus two mana um temple the false gods. Temple of false gods is a card I usually hate. I think in higher land count decks it's more forgivable.

[25:27] so that could be interesting. Sewing micros. Actually, I haven't considered sewing micros. I mean, it's a little bit of a non-bo with flickers. Yeah, it's also Okay, so we need to cut a little bit of budget from this. Are there any lands that don't really need to be here? I think I was going to do like a caves package like I did before. Let me make sure I'm not like breaking the bank with my caves package.

[26:08] Yeah. None of these capes seem too bad. They're all like very cheap. wave of vitriol would be something for sure. Uh although I think I would I think I would just prefer to run an actual board wipe rather than wave of vitriol run like an hour of rev or clean cleansing nova but it's a very funny card. I I would expect that this deck would be playing against other very cheap decks. So, Wave of Vitriel is probably less good uh since there's fewer land options, more basics in decks, etc.

[26:56] True. I can't I can't sort by sort by price. That is definitely Stonehorn Dignitary is interesting. That's definitely one I might consider. Um I have like a kind of stabilization category here for like some life gain. Um Verdon's avatar is great. The rest of these I don't know. Baird honestly is kind of mid. I mostly just included him because he's a four cost Um yeah people love their Apex It's a it's a it's a fun card. I think I ran in my Glya deck a while back but okay.

[27:37] Yeah. Uh somebody mentioned sorting by price which is a good call. What do we got? Yeah. Con closet for Ewit. Yeah. Do I need beans? Do I need beans? Do I need beans? I don't know if I need beans or not. Um I also don't know how I feel. Is there predation? I definitely would consider that. That was one that I had in for a bit, bumped back to the the kind of maybe board. Might might bring it back But how do we how do we cut a little bit of budget from this?

[28:19] I don't know if I want rampaging or not. I don't know if this is a deck that wants that. I'm going to bump this for now. We might see about it later if we want more more beat down potential. Um, but yeah, I'm going to go ahead and bump this to my my maybe board market festival and Dawn's Reflection. I I don't trust enchantment ramp. Um, I like if I'm paying for mana for ramp, I kind of want it to be lands.

[29:05] Um, I there could be some exceptions to that, but I What? Come on. Did I not did I not cut you? Yeah. There. I think Drew of Purification. I I think one I should probably cut here. It's a great great great great card. Uh, building this for $25 deck reasons. Um, is definitely not going to enter my kind of main pool of decks if it does end up being the thing I build.

[29:48] Um, but yeah, I just want to play around with it. See how it works in white. See how cheap I can get it. And that will be kind of what's going on. Planer guide. What is a planer guide? Remove planer. What is that card? That is fascinating. Okay. Yeah, it's a creature that that's it's it's budget flicker.

[30:32] That's interesting. Um can't can't be looped with uh e-wit, so a little bit worse, but I still kind of fun. I like it. Yeah. My my thing with I kind of want to cut beans for now. I don't uh do I want beans? Um how many decks have I made? I a lot. Like if I go to my uh I think like yeah I think like twothirds of that is stuff that wasn't public maybe three quarters.

[31:24] So return from exile card. Dragon scale. Yeah, dragon scale general is decent. I just don't know if this is deck is fast enough to want that. Um, like I'm really looking to to grind and put on some some control hate in late game. What is disorienting choice for each opponent? Choose a Oh, okay. Yeah. So, it's like a a riff Yeah, it's a riff on like the the the offer the tempt with discovery.

[32:20] It's like kind of a riff on that. I that's so if I'm giving my opponent choices, I want the amount of total value the card produces to be I think higher than this. Um like how often is it just three I don't know. like the opponent has to have an artifact enchantment which is decently likely but if they don't this is a explosive vegetation at best because they they do entertapped. It is any land but u this is a budget deck so there's not a whole lot there. It's interesting though. It's dude of purification is a human.

[33:13] That is so true. I hate it. Yeah, I know. I want the beans. The the beans is good. Rift sweeper. interesting. Interesting. Yeah. So, I'm trying to think. If Beans is drawing one card a turn, I'm pretty happy.

[33:56] Um, if I play it early, it might not do that immediately, but any turn after like five, it should be drawing at least one card a turn. Um, and then late enough, uh, or if I get like a big burst of humans out with something like the flashback human generator card. where is it? Uh, increasing devotion. If I get increasing devotion, I can theoretically get beans pretty early. Time of need. Do I have legendary?

[34:37] I do have Thalas Lancers for tutoring for legendaries because that is definitely a lovely thing. I'm trying to think if I have other legendaries that I'm like really really wanting here. containment priest. Rampage of the clans is one I've considered. Although I feel like unironically I feel like if somebody has a bunch of like little artifacts and enchantments, they can kind of just I don't know. It's a little spooky.

[35:17] I feel like you need followup for it and I would rather just pay, you know, six mana for an actual like I can just run cleansing nova instead and that's just like one more mana. You don't have to worry about getting trampled down by a bunch of three three centaurs. That card is horrifying. I think that the the bears one is a little bit better like because that one I think gives a bear to each player who lost a thing and that's that's a little bit better. Uh yeah. Yeah, it's it's it's ramp having having five drops on turn four to five should be pretty consistent, I think.

[35:57] Um so that Hanukkah ranger in principle beans is quite good. I I'm just trying to figure out how to fit in the stuff I want to fit in Ranger. Yeah, that's like a like a a little baby little baby thorn mammoth. Um, yes. I'm trying to cut price a little bit. I I almost want to cut what what what's what's too expensive in my lands because I think right now I'm h spending $3 on lands.

[36:39] That's not too It's not terrible terrible. yes. So, I cut out a couple of high Yeah, d of purification's really good. Big old generous scent. Yeah, generous scent is solid. I had it in for a bit. Um, but it's like 40 cents I don't know. I I I don't even feel like land cycling is that good in this deck.

[37:20] There's just a lot of lands and mostly sorcery speed plays. Fortune, I don't know. Fortune. Um, so part of my issue with Felia is just that I don't fully trust it to be able to swing in consistently. Um, Fortune I think has some of the same issue. I know. Yeah. The fact that this this manavase is is $3 is pretty sweet. I think the temples were like, you know, a buck 50 when they were printed back in Theos. So, it's definitely nice to be able to throw together a manabase that is this low cost.

[38:08] Congregation at Dawn. I that one that one puts on top of library, right? There's like three cards on top of I I don't know if that Yeah, three cards reveal shuffle and put on top in any Then then shuffle and put those cards on top in any order. Yeah, that's I mean it's it's like two bucks and I don't know that I like kind of a a value negative sort of thing. There are definitely a lot of mana. I should just make a an eight plus mana category in my maybe board because there are definitely there are a lot of just like kind of eight or more cost cards that are that are kind of goofy.

[39:09] I don't know that I'm really feeling um great Aurora at the moment. I'm going to toss that there. We can maybe think about it later. I really don't know how I feel about Abdel Adrian, honestly. Um or like there's a similar angel that that also like exels any number of things you control. I I think my hesitation with those is just that I don't I really want to be able to flicker the Abdaladrian to get them back um or to get some immediate value out.

[39:56] Like if they go if they go under, pop back out, get a bunch of ETBs, go back under again, I think that's fine. Um broken. Isn't broken the one that lets you put a land from your hand into play? Think of a different one. Yeah. Yeah. card's okay, but I it's it's kind of tricky because it's low cost removal, but it's clearly intended for decks that run a lot of lands, which is not not a super common niche in commander. Forell Angel is good.

[40:39] Yeah, there there are definitely some number of those effects. Um, yeah, there's there's yeah, like I I made a I made a Torston deck that had a whole bunch of those and that definitely that works. It works when you hit like a critical mass of them or if you have like the little cheap flickers. Uh, I just I I feel I feel a little bit spooked putting them into a higher cost deck. I think bag of tricks. Um, this this is the same land count as Rada, I think. Um, like 41 works pretty well for decks where you want to be hitting your land drops every turn religiously.

[41:31] Um, and it also it also kind of works fine if you're running a bunch of land ramp because you get deck thinned over time. Roll a da real on top of your library creature card with mana value equal to the result. Uh, that that'll whiff on some number of those. Like I guess I could I could I could put in like a one drop and a two drop and whatnot, but I don't really feel the need. 41 is also uh 40 41 I think works out okay as long as you have enough like draw and as long as you have enough stuff to dig through your deck.

[42:17] Um I am a little worried about the draw here. In fact, I God, how how hard would it be to fit in fierce empath woodland? Woodland Bellar is 254. I want that to be less. I like the card so much. Uh because that's that's really lovely to have as uh kind of a filter. Uh, it's almost like filtering because it it can find Eternal Witness and it can find Fierce Empath if I were to add it. Uh, it's just this deck is struggling on budget because of the the the flicker cards all being kind of pricey.

[43:03] Um, I could cut the Eternal Wonder. I don't know. It seems like one of the worst flicker I am I'm drinking a a a energy drink I bought at Costco. It is It is lemon and raspberry. It's pretty tasty. Uh yeah, another round I think seems pretty solid to me. It's a little awkward that it's sorcery for you, but it just it just seems so potentially disgusting.

[43:57] Rachel Weeks, hey Rachel, uh, have you looked at Disciple of Kis Nin? that card. I think this is trying to be a big mana deck. That is like almost like a counter to big mana, but that card is very funny. I I love Disciple of Kais N. I I've never found a place to play it, but uh it's it's such a fun card, I think. So, I think um yeah, I want to say there was there was a Costco in my area that had some some Final Fantasy stuff. Uh but that I I don't know.

[44:38] I even at a cheap price, I don't really feel the need. Oh, I'm I'm sure Elk can can convince me to to fit with the Bellawa in. Keeper of Fables is pretty decent. If if I'm really trying to drop the budget of the draw suite, then I think that becomes decent. that's not amazing though. Keeper of Fables. We'll toss that in there. It's worth worth considering at least. Um, man, the fact that Mangara is so cheap these days is nice.

[45:20] I think that's got to stay in. You consider Bramble Familiar. Is that the one? I know it's a seven drop on the creature. I don't remember what the other effect does. Or no, it's it's seven mana for the the adventure. That's right. Yeah, I it's I just don't need early ramp because I have I have like the car can flicker and the car can also uh be removal. It's it's a funny card. I think I'm also running like I was maybe going to add uh yeah, I was actually looking at Kerodora because there are some decent vehicles to grab and a couple that are flicker things.

[46:11] So like uh golden arguy flickers. Um if I were to add the there's like that other one that flickers um that somebody mentioned a little while back. Although I don't know that that one's that one's not all that tempting to me. But but yeah uh Kerodora could grab limousine Argusy. Let me see. It just those two. Yeah. I'm I don't think I have any mounts in this deck. Yeah. No, no mounts.

[46:56] Perhel is funny. Um I don't want to run too many like big dumb guys though. And I feel like Zulpa has already taken up a big dumb guy slot if that makes sense. Uh, parting gust. That one does seem pretty decent. I would definitely consider that. Um, yeah, that seems good enough for sure. We'll toss that in. Yeah, because it's it can be a flicker, it can be uh removal, and if I like I don't have that much cascade in the stack, but if I do cascade into it, there there are ways around that. So, that seems pretty Voice of many.

[47:38] Voice of many. That's like draw a card for each opponent who has fewer creatures than you. don't I I I don't I could see it, but I don't like that it's conditional. I think I can do better than that. Parhelion over to Zulpa. Let me see. Is Paralian need money? Legitimately I'm I'm getting kind of tight on budget. Yeah, Parhelion. Let's see. Parhelion. Parhelion II. Yeah, I I don't feel like cuz one of the things that makes me like Zulpa is just that it's, you know, been thrown in so many precons that it's a 16 cent card.

[48:27] Parhelion's closer to a buck and I that's that's I don't want to be spending a buck on my big dumb guys. Uh, pick your pick your poison is is a solid card. I don't think I need it here Um really I want like I I definitely I I definitely am seeing the appeal of Voice of Many just because I think it does fit a nice niche of being ETB draw at a kind of middling mana cost. If I could if it literally just read draw two cards or you know draw. Yeah, if it just read draw two cards then I think I would like it a lot. You know, I don't even need the three cards off of it. But I think the fact that it is not consistent is a little bit worrisome.

[49:12] Emergent woodworm is actually decent and that does do some things with flicker. So I could definitely try that. I mean it kind of does like it you scoop off the one one counters but also like the they it's it's you know scoop off the one one counters but you get another trigger of the backup which I think is probably the bigger deal. I'm seeing is emerging wood actually almost a dollar. I can see I know I I I specifically called that card out as one I like. Yeah. Okay. That's that's that's that's a bit that's funny.

[49:56] Lenor Tribe. Is that the one that's like a I No, I think that one's like a like a $5 card, right? H. Not quite. No, no, no. It's it's it's budget. Um, it's not bad. I think I'd rather have like a I think I'd rather take an explosive vegetation over it, though. That's just that just seems a little bit because three mana I I will have three mana plays to weave in sometimes, but not super super often. Great Oak Guardian, the one that untaps things. I don't know that that's going to be doing all that much for me here.

[50:40] Let's see. Cheaper printing of sunb blast angel. Probably not. I saved ascent. I definitely do need to to crunch the budget here a little bit. Honestly though, is this card good? It serves like a recursion purpose, I think, is is kind of nice. Um, see if this is a cheaper printing, so I don't need to think about it.

[51:25] 92 cents 73 cents. I'm inclined to leave this out for the moment and try it again in a bit cuz that's just it's just it's just worse. It's just it's it's not meaningfully better than something like Luminina Primordial. That's a 25cent card. You I think it has some utility bringing back things from the graveyard. Uh yes, philosophy is very similar with Rata, although this deck is looking to be a little bit grindier, a little bit more controlling. Um red really doesn't have that many options for containing later game threats among its high-cost cards.

[52:11] Um like you know all all the all the good removal is like low cost all the good instance speed removal I should say is kind of low cost uh stuff. Woodland acolyte that's the one that uh the adventure one I think the right one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Put target permanent card from a graveyard on top your library. That's that's it's a decent card. Put in the reward.

[52:52] Yeah. Yeah. I fit Angel of Ruin into your budget. Is there a different one? The world spell. Uh yeah, I I've been using Architect for a while and I've just never felt the need to swap over. Um Moxfield I I don't love the UI. I kind of like the the layout on Architect. I know there are kind of options. Moxfield definitely has a lot of options for tweaking the the UI to be more to your preference, which is, you know, cool for it, I guess.

[53:32] But uh that's look at the top seven cards your library reveal a non-saga permanent card from it's decent. It doesn't I feel like if I play this out it gets one trigger and then it gets rocked by a removal spell. I'm going to be feeling pretty bad. And if and if you're ever reading ahead, this card is just kind of not great. Like I guess it's fine if you like read ahead to three, you know, crap out a couple things for seven mana, but that's how much banding how much banding was I including?

[54:24] Probably not a lot. Uh this is a this is kind of a battle cruiser deck built around Katilda. It's doing a somewhat similar thing to Rada where it's it's got some kind of turn three ramp that that speeds it up. But uh I'm am doing I'm trying to introduce a pretty robust flicker game plan. Although the the budget is is fighting with me a little bit. So, we got to we got to do some some cuts. Uh, protection is somewhat important, but I I what I like is that uh cards like Lazelle's Acrobatics and Ghost Way uh already do a protection purpose.

[55:10] Like you can do that in response to a removal spell. Um, kind of similar with like uh parting gust and pegasus guardian. Any any flicker lets you dodge removal to some extent. So, this deck definitely plays more at instant speed than the the rotted deck Let's see what what can I cut for Yeah, if I can get this back down to budget, I might start considering if uh if the woodland bellware fierce empath package works because I think that's that's really tempting if I can make it happen.

[55:57] Um it's just rough that the card is two bucks 50. That's cuz that that's worth like several premium draw spells. Cataclysmic Gearhulk is one I would consider. Eerie Interlude is the one of those effects that's out of budget. Um the rest are around a dollar which is Uh Genesis Storm I think just works like the cards in here are pretty high costed. So if I Genesis Storm I'm going to be getting you know on average 10 mana worth of stuff if I've cast my commander once. And then I also am imagining that there will be some games where Katilda eats a lot of removal um because it is a much better manador than than Rada because if I get some humans out it it can pop off.

[56:50] So in those games it can serve as kind of a really good recovery spell where if I've been having a bad game I play the I play the the uh Genesis Storm. It it really does some good stuff for me. Oh, do I need to cut Torstston? Torstston is so good. That's such a good Yeah, cuz like this I think like 80% of the deck is creatures and lands. So, torsion is basically draw five cards. So, that's that's pretty good.

[57:34] Budget limit is excluding basic lands cannot pass $25. So, we are pretty tight here. Um, let me see how much I look at how much uh artifact enchant removal I'm so we got that that doesn't count. Two one-times. Okay. So, less than I would like, I for for purposes of cutting druid of so good.

[58:23] I can't cut it. Charming Prince is fine, but like I I want to mostly avoid the one time single target flickers. I just don't think they're what this deck is really looking for. If I optimize my printing, I'm at 26. that. Okay. I mean, that's that's getting closer for sure. Uh, this is maybe for a video.

[59:05] We'll see. It's for for for a little project. We'll see where it goes. Let me see. I don't know that I'm sold on Hornet Queen. I threw this in as kind of like a defensive card early. Um I just don't know if this deck needs defense a whole lot. I think I would rather just play like a board wipe or something. Flickering Hornet Queen feels like it's Yeah, we're going to we're going to move that to maybe board for now.

[59:50] I mean, it's not it's it's not cutting budget for sure, but I just don't think I want Yeah, Zach deck. Zackfair is fine. I don't know if this that's what this deck is looking for. What it cuz it's like I mean in principle it's not horrible with uh Katilda just because it can pay for its own um protection cost. Yeah, I I I see it. I see the vision. Um, I don't know for sure that I want it, but I I definitely see the appeal there.

[1:00:36] If you have cards that someone put cards on anyone's creatures, it can be a draw. Oh, yeah. With a a generous patron card is it's a solid card. I don't know if that's what this deck is looking for, but it is a pretty solid card. Angel Angel condemnation is decent. I would definitely consider it. Um I think I have it in my maybe board. Yeah, like it's it's a two mana value Yeah, it's it's fine enough. Currently, I'm running um I guess I was just saying that I'm not sure about Gilrain. Gilrain's pretty decent.

[1:01:17] I think that's like a slightly better version of Angel Condonation. Basically, this I guess can this can at least be a sort of removal spell, but I don't know if that's really what I need necessarily decking challenge. Nice. That's that's fun. Zy Zyuses. I think Zyus Zyus is good as a commander. And then um the the white the green white like Doctor Who commander that that's another really good one for like a pump spell stack.

[1:02:04] That seems like a lot of fun and I I would consider building that out to have a a Zyus Um, I don't know that I need the tree tree shaker chimera. I think I can do better with with my draw. Going to toss that. Yeah, I think I got semester's end in here. Yeah. Yeah, it's a pretty sweet Honestly, I'm almost inclined to just like my higher cost flicker like eternal wanderer.

[1:02:51] Um, also that is something I could do. I could cut conjurers closet for woodland. Is that worth it? Maybe I could see it. What all can Okay, what all can Fierce Empath get? Cuz I think that's going to determine a lot of things here. library with a creature code with mana value six or greater. I know tree tree shaker tree shaker is kind of a fun card. I it might make it back in. I'm I'm not I'm not discounting it forever, but I don't know. Um that's right. Mana value six or greater creatures.

[1:03:36] Torsten's good draw engine. I can grab greenward moras. Although that's kind of the same as the things it can grab. It can grab a whole lot of removals. Okay. So that if I were to if I were to add the wooden bellware package in place of conjurer's closet that could get me a whole lot of removal. Uh I guess technically it could get me a flicker as well in the form of Pegasus guardian. That's kind of neat. There any other flickers it could get me? No. The answer is no. Um, seems okay. Uh, let's see.

[1:04:20] There any other like green green creatures I could add? I guess mana value less than three four Yeah, John Benjamin was the one I was thinking of. Three three elk might say cut the Uh clo closet closet is very nice but it it is a bit for sure.

[1:05:06] Yeah. Conjur's closet. I mean so in principle I think my my density of ETB is pretty high. Like if I if I look up what are my ETBs? It's like yeah all those are ETBs. Ratagas a little bit less but still kind of I guess Garrick's back leader isn't an E2B. Um so like six I wouldn't really consider that need to be six eight all those are ATBs 17 kind of 18 yes like a quarter of the deck is meaningfully useful ETBs for conjurers closet which I don't know.

[1:05:59] I think we might try cutting it. That that I think it seems like a lot of fun to have a woodland bellow package in here. So, I might go ahead and cut this. Move it to the the maybe board for now. Could see swapping back, but we we'll try cutting. Let's we'll see what we can do with wooden So, Bellware goes in. We're going to call that draw. Sure. I think all all the options so far are value engines for being One of Fortune. I I might add So what I might do, I might add Fortune and Kerodora so I have kind of a more fleshed out flicker package.

[1:06:49] yes, Ker Kadora is pretty sweet as a as a thing to to Flicker. Yes. So, let's go ahead and add that. It's also a human. So, if I play it on turn three, I can ramp into something on turn four, unless I'm disrupted. But, you know, that's not the end of the And then, yeah, let's throw in fortune. I like fortune. Fortune. I am a little worried that it won't get in for attacks. Let me see what what it's like a two4.

[1:07:29] Fortune loyal steed. ETB scry 2 attacks while saddled at end of combat. It is a 24. So, as long as somebody doesn't have like super thick blockers, it might work. I don't know. I know. Yeah, I'm about to go three drop What do we got? That's too many cards.

[1:08:13] that's a more manageable number of Are we talking like uh the green X arc that's like destroy a non-creature card definitely do I could I could look for some of the budget tutor options. Um it's like brutalizer exark. Yeah, brutalizer XR creature on top of it and shuffle. how much is that? That's that honestly not bad Yeah, Cilla it it is a whole 50 cents.

[1:09:14] Although I think that that doesn't matter too much for uh budget decks. I your commander can afford to be pretty expensive if it's doing good good work. Okay, so if we're looking for we're looking for targets for woodland bellor. So it's got to be non-leendary. I guess I need to minus t legendary non-leendary green three or less onto the battlefield. Okay, I could definitely throw in just like a uh is there like a better I could do some version of a Rex Age type thing.

[1:09:58] Caligators is fine. all of Blossom Well, Blossoms probably isn't good enough. let's see. Botanical Brawler, Renegade Valor, and Sporal. Yeah, Knight of Knight of Autumn was one I was thinking of as a a kind of riff on I would generally So, Povert Master asks for protection in white, how do you weigh protection from color versus indestructible hex proof?

[1:10:50] I think it depends on how much you're looking for evasion because that is that is the benefit of protection is you get around blockers. Uh, in most situations for protection purposes, I'm taking the hex proof indestructible, but uh, protection does get around blockers for sure. You know, still gets board wiped by probably more things than an indestructible creature would, but um, the the getting around blockers can be pretty good. And they're also just ones that are like I think like the the one that has um what is it? Rebound. That one's pretty decent because you get protection immediately and then your next turn you get a rebound.

[1:11:35] You can, you know, get protection from whatever you want to swing in on and then just do some massive swing. Okay. Will malware targets print lifter ocean dissident rift sweeper. Oh, I did bad man value less than three.

[1:12:17] That would be my issue. Okay. Um, Tyler Proitioner is great. I think it's probably it's like a buck 91. It's still It's such a good card. We'll we'll we'll we'll consider it. Um uh this list doesn't really have enchantments. Not in any meaningful I don't think it even has any at all.

[1:12:59] Yeah, M volley beast tracker doesn't sure yeah I I can explain my my scryfall things a bit. So uh this is low cost creatures mana value less than four type creature color green if it's color equals because that's going to be generally the stuff that's more useful for like a a bigger flicker game plan with woodbellower. Uh, minus T legendary excludes legendary cards. Minus mana X includes cards with an X in their mana cost.

[1:13:42] What else? I wonder if it's worth it for her to run a wood elves. Probably not. Like I could run wood elves over like my existing rampish. So, like instead of like core cartgrapher, I could run wood elves. Um, it's not too bad. I might consider that. I don't know how to go how deep to go on this package. I feel like once I'm at like four or five cards, I think I'm good, but I do want to get up to that number. Um, Topiary Stomper is also pretty good. How much? Yeah, 70 cents. I don't need to pay an extra 50 cents to get a little bit of power toughness. Um, spring ding du is pretty decent.

[1:14:28] I think what else is better? I usually just sort by EDH ranking on Skyfall, but that's just because that's the way my brain processes it it better. I I just find it easier to go to kind of be in the mindset of, oh, I need to be on the lookout for, you know, I'm looking at good cards here. Oh, I'm looking at slightly less good cards here. Um, I don't know. It just kind of puts me in the right frame of mind to analyze cards. Uh, Rejuvenator. Oh, that does.

[1:15:09] Oh, no. Wood Bellow makes her blade elite so much better. Oh, no. Oh no. Oh no. That's too tempting. I I don't I don't think I can actually afford it. Um but it's a fun card and it's obviously this card goes nuts if I can play it and something like a reverent hoplight or an increasing devotion or you know drop a bunch of lands with a maha in play. Just a small thing. Scattered groves included.

[1:15:52] Uh, scattered gro. Yeah, scattered groves. I think uh I figure there's got to be some things that care about forests. At least I have a couple lands to do. So, like fortified village does. that doesn't count count basic type to non-basic. So, that does not work. Um, I'll definitely audit my mana base a bit more later. Make sure I'm not running too many tap lands because I am fairly tap land dense right now. I'll have to play test a little bit. Do some math. Blood root apothecary. Um, we'll throw knight of autumn.

[1:16:42] Claim jumper is decent, but I don't think I I really need catchup ramp here. I think I'm going to be getting ahead Tranquil frill back. Is that even good? I feel like that's just worse than Night of Autumn. Oh, it's also $2. Yeah, it's not worse than Night of Autumn, but because the grave exile is meaningful. So, T my my theory with Timeless Provisioner is that I want as many eternal witness effects as possible, which is to say I want three because there are three of those that exist.

[1:17:29] specifically three. I think Timeless Witness is Yeah, return target card. How can I? I I was not aware of that. Um, dragon cards from Skyfall Architect. But yeah, the idea is run a bunch of those, you know, witness types run and then, you know, currently I'm running, I think, one, two, three, four, four, four copies of exiling number of creatures you control, return them at the next end step, which in theory, you can just kind of recycle that and, you know, get a ton of value.

[1:18:10] Um, lock down the board with a bunch of removal engines. Uh going for some some gross control shenanigans here. Yeah, carving carried here would be a Good morning, Captain Scone. Skullwinder actually is an ewood effect. So I guess I can consider that. Um definitely probably the the least I would want one of these.

[1:18:55] Although that one is I mean it's it's grabbable with woodland bellor, but so is actual ewit. So like I don't know. We'll consider it for sure. District guide. Yeah, these aren't really getting better. I wonder if there's like a is there like an actual draw engine for three minute or less in green. I kind of I guess there's like a augur of autumn. I don't Is that How much money is that? Is that might be might be under a buck because that would be actually a really decent grab off of Yes. 89 cents from the dusk worm printing.

[1:19:38] I would consider that actually. That's pretty good. If you have enough gray paint, I honestly have very little gray paint right now. Uh, I should probably try and get a little bit more in because I think I'm just running the cave pit of offerings. That's my only grave hate at the moment, I believe. Unless I'm forgetting See, do I have any I don't think I have any grave in my sideboard either.

[1:20:27] Oh, no. I have titanius command. Yeah, that's that might be a good ad for both. It stabilizes life total and then it either ramps or it gets spared. I think that's flexible enough. Yeah, in fact, let's let's just get that in there. It's a good card. Uh we'll call it Is it removal? I don't I don't know. It's a The graveyard XL is going to be good, I think. Um, th Charm is decent. Although, yeah, th Charm is good. Grave hate.

[1:21:08] That's That's true. That's true. I might just look through a bit uh and see if I can find. Yeah, we'll throw the raven charm in our possibilities list. I definitely had the the thought for a split second. Oh, I wish there was a a board wipe that had graveyard exile on it. And there there is, but that is not a card that will young in the deck. Uh both because I hate it. If if it was budget, I think for this specific deck, I would run it. But I do not like farewell in general.

[1:21:52] Yeah. Yeah, absam beastmaster. I I respect the beastmaster. I don't want to hate on the beastmaster. The beastmaster is not very good. It's not It's not I respect it. I I appreciate it. Uh that's right. What do we got? It's going to be probably lands first. Yeah, forewell. Scavenger grounds. Return to nature would be like another Thraven Charm style on that might be better than what's the third mode on Thraven Charm?

[1:22:35] I don't actually The third mode is Oh, yeah. Yeah, that destroys an enchantment ex. Yeah. So, that's probably a bit better than return to nature. Actually, that's Wait, no, that's that exiles the whole graveyard. Any Yeah. No, that's a lot better than return to nature. What am I talking about? Okay, what else? Insurance great hate. Great pay. Great. I love interrupter. I don't think this is the deck for hand. It's $2. Uh oh.

[1:23:15] Where we going is fortune a bit pricey? Oh no. Okay. So it's it's not that fortunate. Um, we'll throw that in the flicker.

[1:23:56] Legololis Green Leaf. Legololis Green Leaf is fine. Um, there's also like the one classic budget draw engine. There's like a I don't remember what it's called. It's a green four drop cost two less for your opponents have a green permanent two three with death touch draws on connection to a player. It's a solid I think soul of new forex is in my sideboard already. It's not it's not graveyard tape but stone speaker crystal. I don't really deepwood denison deep. That's no that's that's the one that like cares about plus one plus one counters.

[1:24:37] I think that's that's not really what this deck does not have enough of that. Nautiloid ship is money I believe. That's also money I believe. for graveyard titania have any attention is $3. Yeah. Okame adversary is is what I was thinking of. That that's a solid card. Like it's it's certainly not bad.

[1:25:37] Isn't graveyard isn't that 31 flash? Oh yeah, Kitzel's. Uh, no, you're totally right. I think somebody mentioned it earlier. That one is also ETB, so that one's likely. yeah, Cuts Flanker, I would definitely consider that one. the fact that it has it's a graveyard exile and it has other modes definitely makes it pretty solid. We'll start with Titanous Command. We got that there at least. I think that's a really sweet about exile with the modality and the life gain there. Like being able to stabilize like that is good.

[1:26:18] I probably don't need pelorm if I've added a little bit of life gain. Um I I need some life gain but not a super massive amount. Packorm is kind of a janky card. I respect it. I love I love the worm. The worm is great but a little bit janky. Primal command. Let's see. What is that? That I remember one of the mode is putting a creature on top of your library or something. Okay, that's actually No, that's that's Yeah, I'll take it. No, that looks lovely actually.

[1:26:59] Um, fully axe the worm. I don't think there's any chance it comes back in. Yeah, primal command I like a lot Oh, did it jump to the sideboard? Yeah. No, we want that main board. That's a good card. Uh, I'm going to call that interaction, but the fact that it tutors as well is really sweet. I love that. Um, it can grab like a bunch of centerpiece creatures that it can grab that are really great.

[1:27:41] yeah, we'll call that removal. No, not that. Sentinel of lost lore is seven cents. A three drop and exiles a player's whole ass graveyard. I'll have to look at that Call that kind of draw. So, it's a two drink for a good card is drawing cards. I don't think the type really matters. Sentinel of Lost Lore.

[1:28:22] Is that Wait, is that the three mana 3 four guy? No, no, no, no. I mean, it is a three four, but what what else? Yeah. a two. You know, these texts basically don't exist. So, it's battlefield basically exalt players graveyard. Yeah, I think that's kind of similar to cuts flanker. It is grabable with um with woodland bellor, which I think certainly is kind of interesting to me, but I don't know. It's uh I don't think it's it's it's just worse than good sner by a fair amount. So, I don't know that I feel the need.

[1:29:02] So, I'm going to pop this in my flicker Does Titaneous Command fetch any lands? It does fetch any lands. That's so funny. You're You're right, Goldwin. That's funny. Mist breath elder. So, it's a funny little frog guy. I don't know that that is the flicker solution I am dreaming of.

[1:29:50] Palace Jailer is decent. This is kind of a control deck, so I'm a little nervous to put it in control. It's amazing in aggro. It's amazing in any fast deck. Um I'm pretty sure it I think the Yeah, like it just gets so yeah, I don't I don't necessarily uh the the the land tutor is Titania's command. Six mana uh to do a bunch of stuff including search for any two lands. put them off the battlefield tapped and then shuffle. Which honestly grabbing like a wind brrist tights wind brrist kites and a mossware bridge is like really sick value actually.

[1:30:37] That's super good. More than value. It's it's because these these are you kind of like a ramp thing. Verdant confluence. I'm here for modal. What do we got? Oh, this one. Yeah, it's a it's a little bit uh less tempting to me just because I think I'm already kind of going hard on the recursion just because I I need it for my flicker package. Um so like EWIT and Timeless Witness and such like Sele Yeah, kind of Celelesnia human flicker battle cruiser thing.

[1:31:18] Uh, Outcast Trailblazer. Zul Z was just a big dumb guy. So, with my flicker effects, I just added woodland bellow. I I cut Conjur's Closet for it exactly, but I'm doing kind of Woodland Bellow paired with Semester's End type effects. Um, actually, Ghost Way is a lot more readable. Uh, just cards that exile your creatures and then return them at end of turn. I think those go great with like Eternal Witness. They go great with uh you know any any of these like recursion creatures that grab any target. Eternal Witness, Timeless Witness, Green Warden of Murasa.

[1:32:01] yeah, Thal's Lancers grabs all sorts of great stuff here. My mic is cutting out sometimes. Why is Let me know if it gets bad and I'll I'll investigate a little bit. Angel of Glory's Rise is seems okay. See, what I know is going to happen if I run Angel of Glory's Rise is I'm going to let my commander hit the graveyard and then I'm going to try and return it and then I'm going to get my Angel of Glory's Rise counterpelled and then I'm going to be sad because that's just what's going to Um, oh, Sun Titan.

[1:32:46] Yeah, Sun Titan. How in God's name did I miss the Sun Uh, yeah, actually, that's super good. Sun Titan. I think I just want that main board. I mean, I guess so. It does have a more limited range of grabs in this deck than in some. I might sideboard that for now actually because I I think I have a kind of limited. It's basically just lands and I'm running like six three or less cost cards currently versus I did look at Salvation Swan and the answer is mostly no.

[1:33:32] There are like one or two but not a whole lot. Hunter and village bell ringer. Uh bellow does not grab white creatures. It only grabs green creatures. Um have to have some green in them. Otherwise, yes, there are some definite, you know, white things you can do. But that's definitely not workable unfortunately due to the Yeah, but Bellawar still has a bunch of good targets.

[1:34:22] It's an awesome effect in any sort of flicker deck, so we can still make it work. I'm glad to cut some of the worst flicker here. Um, is Pegasus Guardian not good enough? I don't know. Uh, another round is really good. Gale Powder Mage is so good. Yeah, because this one I can like land it on a turn and then like the following turn I can play something to to exile. I think I'm going to run off and get some water and use the bathroom. So, you all better behave.

[1:37:28] Oh, yeah. Fierce Empath needs to go in. All right. It looks like you all you'll behave yourself nicely. The ri the riot failed. I hate to tell you, but yeah, let's get Let's definitely get Fierce Empath in there for the tutor chaining This deck isn't running as many lowcost humans as a lot of Catilda decks. So is running it's running like a handful of four drop humans which are nice and then it's also running a handful of like mass human generators which are like um cigarda reverent hoplight maha or maga.

[1:38:25] I like maha that sounds spicier. And then uh increasing devotion is like the other one that really like gives you a big boost of humans. Um sapphire is decent. I'm trying to think. So, if I need I need the the ETB creature to get in the graveyard for that to happen. So, I guess that'd have to be like a board wipe, which I I am running some of and I might add one or two more of. So, I could see it. Yeah. Maha blast. That's Yeah, that's just how that's pron any any word that has aja in it. It's got it's got to be aha.

[1:39:09] Oh, no. That's true. Yeah, I I'm confusing people with the like black removal engine. That's what Mahas is, It's this gross guy. Yeah, I'm sure I'm sure this stream is at a great time for uh anybody in in I I started at like 8:30 a.m. my time just because I was up and wanted to build a deck and uh thought it'd be fun to have that streamed.

[1:39:51] Okay, how many cards we at? Okay, we're Am I done looking at these? Let me let me go through a handful more and then we'll call it good. Moana Vully, Beast Tracker. I don't think I actually have many good options for one voy like in I always look at this card and I'm like that looks great. Uh but it doesn't put it into hand and then it also Yeah, they're just not there's just so many cards that just don't have those keywords. Um, Luren is good, although I think it's still a couple couple bucks. And uh, people saw me struggling with Druid of Purification earlier and that was 90 cents.

[1:40:37] So, yeah, that's kind of where I cap out on what I'm willing to spend on removal The Cascade I could so I could see cutting um, I could potentially see cutting Cascade. I in principle I like it as like a way to dig deeper into the library, but it definitely gets worse the more kind of two three drop stuff I put in. Granted, it's still not a lot currently. Like it's like, you know, that much uh you know, two non-commander, two drops, six non-commander or six three drops. Uh failure has gotten a lot cheaper.

[1:41:18] Um, it's like two bucks at this point, but my first favorite color was black and I think that is still my my favorite color. I I tend to brew in black a lot. Just a big fan of all the the stuff there. Big fan of paying life to draw cards and other such things. See, I might cut the eternal wanderer. That might just be worse than the other flicker options. It's like no more than one creature can attack the eternal wanderer each combat.

[1:42:00] But there are going to be three combats before my turn. So, see, for each player, choose a creature that player controls each player. No, that's just a good board effect. Yeah, this this seems good enough. It's a It's a It's a pretty sweet card. Woodfall Primus. I ran in Rada for a while and I just found that the eight mana felt a little clunky. Like it's you don't want to pay eight mana to remove one thing. Like you compare that to something like Protector of the Wastes that exiles two things for six mana and Yeah, it's it's hard to justify.

[1:42:43] Same with like Angel of the Ruins, like the white options. Even Terraadon, I think I'm probably going to cut at some point here just because I don't really love um yeah, I can see cutting the Cascade. I I I'm not particularly uh I think I probably like Natural Wreck. I found a lot of success with that and I like having that as an instant speed play. Um, but I think something like an enlisted worm or an annoyed altaur is definitely maybe a little more mid, not not necessarily all that good. So, I could definitely see cutting this.

[1:43:25] This deck is definitely doing something kind of fundamentally different than what the the rat deck is doing. Like, it's still it would still be nice to hit like my ramp off of it. I don't know. I I feel like I need to play test this deck a bit to to get an idea of what's going on with it. We're at 2822. That's not too bad. Need to cut out a little bit of value. Eternal Wonder is your Bethl theme board. Yeah, Eternal Wonder is great.

[1:44:09] some card draw or something. Andre's 4Runners is solid. Um, yeah, I don't really have most of my flicker doesn't isn't most of my flicker is not the sort of flicker that works with endra for runners. I think almost all of my flicker is exile returned at end of turn and that's not all that great with uh uh in in in theory. Well, so the way I think about it is natural reclamation gets better the more I have to play at instant speed because I have options.

[1:44:56] If I can choose between natural wrecking at instant speed or semester's ender end ending at instant speed, that's that's that's a good choice to be able to make. Um, so I think broadly I I like natural wreck in this deck. I think the the the the dino and the worm I could go either way on. Sweet gum recluse I've just had a lot of success with. That one's also flash. So that one is definitely staying as well. But these these top two I think are are very much cutable. um two different I don't think I like duplicant or terrassidon a whole lot honestly.

[1:45:39] Um let me let me look at what what what I had. I threw a bunch of stuff in here. Um so there was like yeah duplican's cheap. Highly cliff fellar is really good creature removal but that's two bucks. Um, Koga is great, but that's creep crept up to a buck 50. This is probably a no-go. Honestly, I think I'd probably do meteor Golem before duplicant, but I I don't like either all that much. It's just it just seems kind of clunky. I could see adding Resolute back in. That's a really good card. That's a really good card.

[1:46:22] um I don't think I'm instant speed enough to for wilderness rack. Uh yes, I do have uh pardon gust. links in chat. Uh as long as it doesn't get like clogged up with everybody trading deck lists, then that's fine. also don't like send some sketchy virus I I also don't know if I need to enable links in chat somewhere. I probably just won't bother. Um, Resolute Archangel seems really good for like a slower deck, so I might try and crowbar that back in.

[1:47:07] That seem that seems quite good. Toss that in stabilization. Uh, is there more payoff? There there's there's some payoff. So, um, I haven't actually looked recently, but there's a decent I tried to put in a decent number of like four drop humans. I didn't realize both witnesses were humans. That's pretty good. Uh, so there's like this one might be cutable. Honestly, this this is I'm questioning that a little, but there's like Yeah, there's a bunch of horost humans which kind of let you go a little bit flexible on your ramp.

[1:47:56] And then there are a couple really big human generators. Um, uh, Cigarda, Reverend Hoplight, Maha, and increasing devotion all can turn out a lot of humans. Um, I'm inclined to get rid of the these cascade throw that into the assorted bucket. So, this deck is mostly higher cost stuff, so I'm probably not looking for bounce. I think that's just going to really like be kind of a a self-defeating type of card.

[1:48:46] The curve out with Rip is pretty sweet. yeah, any number of different creatures or vehicle cards running like 40 creatures. On average, you get one to two. I'll say one. On average, you get one creature off of fine. That's okay. It's fine. Um I don't know. I I could go either way on RIP. I It's only 14 cents, so I'm not feeling particularly glad to cut it right now, but um could be cut.

[1:49:31] Okay, what else do we got going right now? I I almost kind of want to cut the things find only creatures. Wy Duke is another one that I considered. I I don't know. It's an okay draw engine. It's not But it like it needs needs the commander in order to draw cards. Yeah, I'm running Mangara currently.

[1:50:12] Um, it's definitely one of those cards that like it's just expensive enough that I consider cutting it, but then I go back and read the text and I'm like, "Yeah, it's going to be drawing a lot of cards. I need that." Um, honestly, I might be more inclined to cut Ratagast just because it cannot find my flicker and that kind of hurts. Um, I think I really want to be able to find like a Lazel acrobatics or something. I think that that like immediately turbocharges my game plan. I'm probably shooting for a low bracket three here. Um, it's a it's kind of hard to shoot higher than that with a $25 deck. Uh, unless you like really hone in on like a combo commander or something. Um, yeah, I'm going to cut Ratagast.

[1:50:54] I don't feel like that's going to be doing I'm sorry. Ratagast is not terrible. Ratagast is a lovely card. I simply don't know if I want it in this Um, yeah, Garrick's Uprising. Actually, I for a while I thought that was expensive, but I think that one's actually gotten a lot cheaper, so I threw it in my maybe board. Um, yeah, that's probably a better draw engine. Let me double check my my powers. Power greater than three.

[1:51:35] Um 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 actually less than I would expect I think. Yeah, that's like excluding the vehicle. That's like 17 18 I don't know. I'm I don't know that I'm I do I do need I think more draw is going to be good though. So I should keep an eye out for that for sure. Roll cruel claw. Yeah, for sure.

[1:52:15] Tedus. What does Tedus do? Yeah. So, it's like a it's like a it's like a grazax basically in green white. Also a human. I could see. Yeah, I could see it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We'll throw them maybe bored and then I But yeah, that seems pretty decent.

[1:52:57] Perhilion is another finisher. I don't think I don't think I need a parhelion here. I'm honestly debating if I need even need the Zulpa, but it's also just such a good blocker that I think that kind of makes it worthwhile for me. Um, I definitely threw together a $25 winota deck a little while back and it was uh disgusting. Like if the commander gets removed on turn for you're in trouble, but like they need instant speed removal for that and then if you get a swing in with like three non-creature dudes, it just it just starts going out of control really really fast.

[1:53:42] It's hilarious. Zatopa is Yeah, Zotopa is just a big guy. Uh I I've seen it in action. It's pretty good. It just it just kind of whacks people really hard and blocks well. But yeah, I I could go either way on it. Um I'm also thinking of pumping up the board wipe count in this deck if I can find a bunch of cheap white board wipes. Um and actually I already know I want cleansing no. Oh, is there cheaper printing? Cleansing Nova Midnight Hunt 44 cents.

[1:54:23] That's looking trailblazer. Yeah, outcast Trailblazer is a pretty decent card. How much is that these days? Yeah, for 92 cents. It's a little hard to justify. Evra is ever is the life swap one, isn't it?

[1:55:06] That That's a different sort of card. Very funny card, but Project Oh, yeah. Project Guardian is going to be out of budget. That's like a $10 card still. Catastrophe. Catastrophe sounds like something that is destroying lands, but I don't actually know if it is. Probably think of cataclysm. Nope, that is destroying lands. Yeah, I'm not going to be picking the former option if this is a big mana deck. I still need to play test this deck a bit and figure out how often it curves out the way I want it to.

[1:55:56] is also not quite what I'm looking for. Split up. Split up is really good. Yeah. yeah, I I do need board wipes to be pretty cheap because I I'm spending pretty big in some other areas, specifically woodland, bellware, draw, and flicker. That's going to be eating up most of my budget. So, I think I need everything else to be like really cheap. Um in fact, I should probably real quick audit my ramp and make sure there's nothing too pricey here.

[1:56:38] Primeval Herald. Oh, there's not a cheaper printing of that, I don't think. Like, is the original printing was worth like three bucks at some point? I'm guessing it probably still buck 50 or something. Oh, it is a little cheaper. Is it? I actually remember. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Go jump start 2022. I'm going to be I I need to cut back down to uh I need to cut four cards and then I'll try some test hands because I I do want to give give a good round of testing to this.

[1:57:22] Um I I do need to know that, you know, the fundamentals of the deck work basically. dragon storm secutus route. There cheaper printing of secutous route. Divine reckoning. Is that the one that exiles non-token creatures? Doesn't really do it for me. Battle of the Bwater keeps ewits. Interesting. Oh, that right. Yeah, some throwback nonsense.

[1:58:06] Yeah, I I think this very frequently is going to be missing what you wanted to kill with your board wipe. So, that is not something that's tempting me unless I have like exactly one creature I care Um, I think I I did I cut um I cut the two sorcery speed cascaders. I like sweet I personally like sweet gum recluse and natural reclamation good enough to keep them in. I I think they're just pretty decent in a in a somewhat slower, more controlling deck. Um, expel the interlopers is is really yeah.

[1:58:49] I don't know this going to be all that great in this deck, but like it's it's a you know, for it's looking pretty cheap, so I might just toss it in. Um, although I guess yeah, the the alternatives would be like route for like an instant speedboard wipe. Um, that means if I'm at like 11 mana, I can do like a uh Lazelle's Acrobatics, then board wipe on somebody else's turn, which is kind of fun. Yeah. 27.81. Yeah. So, I'll I'll see if I can cut Eternal Wonders is good. Let's go price. We'll see if we can cut some some pricier stuff.

[1:59:37] Ewit. Let me see if there's a cheaper printing of EWIT. I Yeah, I can do price optimizing later. This is this is not something to worry about. Okay. Torsten, founder of Banelia. So, the one thing I don't like about Torston is that he does not find like instance of sorceries. not my favorite thing, but the card is really good otherwise. So, I find it a little hard to cut. Golden Argusy. I like this card. Okay.

[2:00:20] No, I like this card more than okay. This is a pretty good card because it it it is when it attacks. So, you don't even need to hit combat damage. Beans is definitely something I'm considering cutting just because like there's a lot of payout for it. Like if I look at where I'm at right now with mana values, uh it's like 30 basically 30 on the nose, which it's a fair amount. Uh, Mangara. Yeah, Eternal Witness. Du of Starfall invocation is actually pretty It is 67 cents.

[2:01:21] The golden argusy. Yes. Uh yes, this is a a cat deck. It is I lubricate snail. Yeah. Uh, let me let me just find some real quick cuts. I'll worry about budget later. I just need to know if the the fundamental idea of the deck pans out. Okay, so I could probably cut a little bit of flicker. Uh, did I have payoffs for like Pegasus Guardian? Uh, he actually kind of did.

[2:02:04] Fierce Empath grabs Pegasus Guardian. So, I think that's good enough justification. Partigus is just good. Uh, I don't know if I'm sold on my Like I got Mysterious Limousine. I got Golden Argusy. I Is this card even good? Okay. When it enters, it exiles a thing till it leaves. Enters or attacks. That just seems really slow. I don't Uh, this deck was inspired by I want to build a $25 deck for reasons.

[2:02:53] And uh, I I figured I would try I would I would try out a a Rata riff. I didn't want to literally just build $25 Rata because that feels boring. Um, but I I do want to try out uh some version of a $25 Rata style deck. Um, yeah, Kerodor is good. I uh, the issue with Kodor is that the only things I want to grab are fortune and golden argy. Let me, let me do a quick search through. First of all, let me see what must be done. Somebody mentioned that.

[2:03:37] choose one. Yeah. Uh, how much is Realm Cloak giant these days? If it's cheap, I would go with it. Yeah. No, that seems fair enough. I will put my board and probably edit. a future vid maybe. Yes, indeed.

[2:04:20] oh yeah, I was going to check out vehicles real quick to see T vehicle code identity less than or equal to green white. give me the EDR rankings. I'm guessing there not going to be a whole lot that's that appealing here. Yeah, that's not Weather Light is okay draw. It does also if I if I go a little bit harder on um board wipes, I think it becomes How many how many legendaries do I have? We're rocking like I'm just going to throw the top in the baby board right now.

[2:05:03] I don't uh let's let's just get that out of here for now because I I don't I want eight mana cards to do a lot. Uh, okay. So, with that, we've got 12 legendaries. Yeah, I don't think I don't think Weather Light's gonna be doing it. Okay, that that is Kerdori is where Parhelion does become more tempting. Uh, so I I starting to respect that suggestion So, this is going to be I think a slower, more controlling deck.

[2:05:44] So, I think Resolute Archangel does become pretty good. Um, whether it's worth a buck 07 is definitely a question. I think I also had something like uh I I had some other version of it like uh some giant or other some ETBs I think. Yeah, Arbiter of Noridge, which that that would be like an alternative uh angel basically. I could see it. Um Archon of Valor's Reach, I could see that being a little bit weaker in this deck than in some. I think it makes a really good topend card for a hate bears deck. Um but I don't I don't think this deck is trying to do quite the same thing.

[2:06:27] I think it's more looking for like a removal engine rather than uh like stacks. So I'm inclined to cut this for now. Cut the green and add red instead. Yeah, let's get that out of there. Uh, okay. Going back down this list. Uh, Sika's Chariot is a card that I don't think actually does a whole lot in this deck. Regal. Yeah. Is that Wait, that one's pretty decent, right? Um I don't think it's turn three ramp notably. Uh but it is ramp.

[2:07:07] Yeah. So it does need a crew one. So if you tap out uh tap out the commander turn three, you cannot crew it. Um but if if I'm looking for vehicles, I think that one still is pretty solid. Let me just throw that. Oh, no. You're right. Yeah, that probably won't make it in. Okay, never mind. Maybe later. Oh, I know. Yeah, I uh I am looking forward to I'm I'm definitely going to try and build an aa deck because I've been messing around with various token copy decks recently.

[2:07:59] Uh, and that card is a lot of fun with those. Oh, I see. Yeah, somebody mentioned Lumbering World Wagon. I think I like that pretty well, actually. Better than the regalia. So, and that is actually a turn three ramp. It's crew four, but I got some chunky guys in this deck, so I think that should be fine. Um, yeah, that was one of the No, not not that colossal plow.

[2:08:43] What is that vehicle based ramp? If it's a white ramp, I'm kind of worried it's catchup ramp, which is not necessarily what this deck is looking I don't I don't think I'm seeing anything else here that's striking my colossal plow. I see. Ooh, crew six.

[2:09:25] Oh, wow. That is a juicy crew number. Wow. It does have three white. Um, yeah, that's Seems a little bit challenging. What's the other one? Uh, guardian sun. Guardian summary is an actual consideration here, I think. There there are a nonline permit. No, but it is searching my library, so that works fine. kind of like that.

[2:10:05] Yeah, I need I need to go through other mountains now. I like Bor Ox in principle, but I don't think this is a Boric Ox deck. I don't think District Mascot does much. Humble Wag also doesn't do much. Yeah. Yeah. I think Guardian Summer is like the one card that's actually interesting here.

[2:10:57] Yep. Okay. Yes. I mean there there definitely I think there are probably enough options to to make a car practice work out. Okay, let's let's cut some stuff. Uh probably more expensive stuff. Do I need ghostway? Ghost way is really Let's axe the limousine. I don't really use our tags. Um, sometimes I'll remember they exist and start using them, but I have frequently found that they're incomplete or not quite what I'm looking for.

[2:11:39] So, I've just gotten kind of good at using basic skyfall. Uh, I don't know that I'm feeling fortune, honestly. Yeah, let's cut fortune and then let's which I I I makes the car door package look pretty garbage right now. I'll cut bar instead. Actually, bear doesn't do Sarafic steed isn't terrible, but like it's just a beater.

[2:12:22] Um, Blade of Prototype is a card I could put in. Honestly, that's a card that's a good candidate for my Rata deck actually because it that is not in good removal let's see. Turn three acceleration Yeah, I guess some amount of that. Honestly, we might be low on turn three acceleration. Although, there are a fair amount of alternate turn four or like two, three, four drop plays, so it could Okay, that's good enough.

[2:13:02] Yeah, we keep Temple plenty. What we got on top? Lovely. Keep it there. play Catilda. We play a rangers path. Searching up the dual forests, I think.

[2:13:43] play tapped. Do I have another dual forest? Yeah, I think I have the Yeah, it's that one, too. That one pro the the cycle the bicycle end probably gets cut, but we'll see. Okay. Yeah. So, we're at this point. could play the Maja to start to build up a board of humans. Um I kind of want to do that. Present a threat. hold of the the wind briskites. So we got that. We got wind kites gets us a human. Need to clear out my sideboard so I have less here.

[2:14:29] And then one, two, three, four. Wow, that's a full whiff. Is it play? Yeah, play. Uh, yeah, I'll take the vault to vault, I guess. I'm just gonna put that there. Okay, let's say for the sake of argument that Maha doesn't get removed. Okay, so now that's Golden Argusy. Suddenly that sets up like a sick Angel of the Ruins Timeless Witness play.

[2:15:09] yes. We play Golden Argusy. We play Vastwood Surge. Getting a couple more lands. That's going to get us three more humans total for this turn, which is pretty good. Play card. Play card. Yeah, that's that's And then we have a ton of mana next turn. We do some gross stuff with that. That's that's not bad.

[2:15:55] let's see. Okay. So, that this is where Okay. You know, we This actually works out pretty Maha Blast. Yeah. Uh this hand is actually kind of sick, I think. Yes. We Mosswer, you know, we turn one Mwar, we grab, you know, something Sunblast Angel. Uh Ghost Way is definitely what we get here. Ghost way, I think, just goes crazy in this deck. Yeah, we we do got that Argusy. Uh, Play the commander.

[2:16:36] Uh, play the village. Play. What are we doing first here? I think we need to get build up mana initially. Um, dual dragon storm. Next turn we have Yeah, I think we we just have to play the beantock plus I think like a could go beantock plus argusy. Yeah, I think that's the move. And then suddenly we can flicker next turn.

[2:17:19] Um play a land for turn. Draw a card off of Next turn we have Solemn plus Argusy to get a little bit of more ramp. This is like a little bit slower of a roll out, but I think it turns out okay. Like we just have a lot of grind here. Um if my commander gets removed, this puts out three things after I recast her at the beantock and potentially get some draws. I think this is pretty solid. Yeah, Maha's Maha is quite good. Let's try another Yeah, that's that's that's a it's okay.

[2:18:06] I am I am building a new uh brewing out trying out a uh $25 kind of uh riff on my router deck uh for purposes for a potential video. Um I don't know whether this is going to end up working out the way I like, but I figure it's worth trying. Director of Sad Robot. Oh, no. I I I am a Sad Robot defender. Everybody else in the world hates Sad Robot, but I I will defend Sad Robot.

[2:18:51] I can see mulling this. Yeah. Yes. We do that. We get robot out. We grab a Yeah, this hand didn't I mean we we get increasing devotion out which I is nice because they basically have to remove the humans because removing Katilda doesn't really do anything. Uh so I think that ends up feeling pretty good. If they remove Katilda, we get to do a sick Genesis Storm play. Yeah, it's still a bit over budget right now. It's not uh it needs to be cut down a little, but it's not the end of the world.

[2:19:35] Um yeah, some good plays there. yeah, that's pretty solid. Uh we got the ramp, we got the the lands. Might even play Mangara turn three, honestly. That that just starts grinding card advantage really well. draw a tapland turn two. Of course, Yeah. So, we'll play Mangara. Let's see. If I get a If I get a 11 to 15, I get one card.

[2:20:21] If I get a 16 to 20, I get two cards. That's a nine. And I don't get cards. All right. Play Tapland. Encroaching Dragon Storm. Actually, I could play I don't really have a six drop really. The Emperor of Palamasia. I I'm not I'm not familiar with that. Play that. Get a couple things. Yeah, this game is definitely a little bit This is very much depends on Mangara to to get us going here. Yeah, it's fine enough.

[2:21:04] Yeah, this game is not ideal. Surveyor getting gave her pit of offerings or even citadel is so good. Yeah, I don't I don't have Yeah, wayfair's bubble's good. I like Um, I think it depends a little bit. Like if you're running a whole bunch of colors, it's going to be less common or I guess it depends on the number of tap lands you have. If you have a lot of tap lands, you're going to be paying effectively three mana for the card, which is awkward. But if you can play it on turn one a fair amount or like weave it into your mana curve somewhere uh for the one mana and then have it it can kind of feel like a ramping growth, which is the ideal situation, obviously.

[2:21:56] Yeah, we do not keep that on the first go round. Yeah. What is this emperor card? The emperor of Palamasia. What do we got? Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Cast another spell at least for us. Transform it. What's the backside? That's kind of sick actually.

[2:22:38] That seems like a lot of fun because that backside bombs people pretty hard. I like the dragon storm enchantments generally. I mean I think the red one's kind of what what is the red dragon storm? It's like a a like creative technique type thing from top of the library until you exile an online card. You may cast it without paying cost. Um this one's just Like this isn't even not what the deck wants. The card is just not very good is my issue with it.

[2:23:21] Um like if it was four mana I would like it but it is five mana which is not the right amount of mana. Encroaching dragontor Storm is lovely. I am happy to run that always. Okay this was my opening hand. This is not a keep the first time around. Maybe not even the second time around. Well, that is also a mulligan down to six. Um, it's got a hidden nursery. We can try and grind a little bit of value. It's not too bad.

[2:24:07] Oh, well. Yes. So, we're drawing more and more ramp, which honestly I found um in this style of deck that's not the end of the world. Uh because you can just kind of chain a bunch of ramp. Do I have a cave I want right now? I don't think so. Dragon Storm. We'll get some play card. play card. Maybe tap play a tapped hidden nursery.

[2:24:50] Tap four for another fastwood surge and then hope we draw something is roughly how this goes. Do I not have I not upgraded my rattle list with the green dragon storm? It it is in my paper deck. Uh I promise you that I have all these decks.

[2:25:39] It's explosive dragon storm. What is it? Encroaching dragon storm. Yeah, I forgot to add it. What? What did I end up cutting for it? It was like uh is it path frontier? Something like that. I think it was this one actually. I should double check if there's anything else I'm missing from this list at some point.

[2:26:28] Uh, I'm working on a Catilda kind of ratta variant. I was just doing a little bit of play testing. I need to see if I draw garbage or not. Play card. Play card. How we looking? What's our draw? That's pretty bad. Okay, so we're kind of running out of cards. What happens if I flip the nursery? Does that hit something? Maybe hits Path of the Animist.

[2:27:10] It's one of those classic games where I draw nothing but ramp. Honestly, not the worst thing that could happen. I would rather draw nothing but ramp than miss land drops. Honest to God, it works out better in the the long term. Um, I think this is a fine opening hand, Like, I need to draw payoff. I might see if I need to add more uh more ETB um cards cuz I obviously have the payoff. I'm drawing the payoff just fine. Oh, yeah. I saw the new explosive vegetation. I think at this point I really don't need anymore. Like I've I've kind of gotten enough.

[2:27:52] There's a lot of versions of explosive edge. I'm already kind of playing the good ones. Play card. Play card. Kind of flooding a little bit. Maybe we'll keep up the white interaction. Uh, play tap land. That's fine. Yeah, I I mean, I think it depends. So, if you have if you have bursty card draw that starts generating a lot of value for you, uh flooding can allow you to catch back up super hard later, especially if you're flooding in both uh ramp and lands.

[2:28:46] Uh lands plus ramp drawing nothing but that for a while. You know, the table's not going to be looking at you too hard, and you're going to, you know, have a ton of mana for when you eventually do find some stuff. Um you just need to have the draw in there to find it eventually. Yeah, this is kind of going rough. I need to try one more game, but it seems like I might need more just uh draw type stuff. This is a nice deck. This a nice hand. guess we'll go Windrisk. One, two, three, four. Wow, it's a lot of lands that exile.

[2:29:31] move to bottom of library. It also depends on your mana curve a lot because if you have a high mana curve, uh hitting a ton of lands and ramp can feel a lot better because all you need to do is draw like a handful of like high cost cards and then suddenly it feels like you're playing Magic again. Um, okay. See, here we're drawing some of our good stuff. invasion of Zendicar on somebody. Grab a couple This this this is very similar to my rat deck. This is not not very very similar. Like I think the end game plan is very different. It's running a lot less cascade, a lot more flicker.

[2:30:13] Um but it it is kind of structurally choosing the same path in terms of resource gaining. So I don't have a specific wing card in mind. I might test a little bit. Oh, it's a fat wasp in my room. It's like a unique type of wasp. One of those guys with the strange and spindly Uh, okay. What What am I doing here? Yeah, that's right. playing my sweet gum and then hope we hit something good.

[2:30:57] Druid of purification. Sure. Is using Katilda as the two mana dork. Although there is a lot more utility here for Katilda than the Rata deck has for Rata. Like there there are a bunch of kind of human generators. And what I like about that is that even if Katilda gets knocked out, if you just generate a bunch of humans, like pay for four, even play Katilda for six, if you just have a bunch of humans, then you can just kind of make back up that mana. Stay over there.

[2:31:40] what was I doing? Oh yeah, I got boot of purification. Okay, that was that game. So I I I've thought about kind of making verdians. I don't think green black actually has a dork in it. Um but the other color combos definitely do. Uh I I don't know. It's an option, but I'm I'm I like the deck a lot, so I find it fun brewing them, but uh I I really only need one of them in my actual deck. I know. Yeah. Hornet queen coming for for revenge. Yes. I think I just need more kind of smoothingish draw.

[2:32:24] Um I do have some number I I do have some number of tutors. I'm just not finding them Like I I think tutors wise I have I've got Wow, we're not loading. Okay, there we go. All right, categories singular. Tutors wise, I think I have a fair amount. Like I've got fierce empath and woodland bellow, which can both find each other. Um I've got where was it? Uh primal command, which that finds a thing. I I think in principle I have enough draw. Maybe I'm just not finding Oh yeah, this Belby.

[2:33:11] Belie's Yeah, the the Kellen version seems kind of fun. Um, yeah, I I think this is looking decent. I I've definitely built up the value engines here a lot. Uh, like there are just so many flicker nonsense engines. I think we need probably a couple more pieces of like more generic draw. So, I might see if I can cram in something like a a Garrick's Uprising, a uh maybe a maybe a Tedas. I think there there's some good options here, but feeling pretty good about this in Things are looking pretty good.

[2:33:58] Oh yeah, Arixes you can do you can do things with. Actually, I did something similar with GoreClaw in the sense that I I ran a ton of ton of two meta ramp. Uh not a ton, like 15 pieces. Honestly, it was a surprisingly low number, but it it worked out. Uh and then just the rest of the deck was a whole lot of like four, five, six mana creatures just to like start dumping out. Uh, and that was that was fun, but it was so so fragile compared to Rata. Um, in inverting the the curve is so much more impactful than you would think. Like the fact that explosive edge gets two lands h having your main having your like core ramp card get two lands rather than one is just such a huge difference.

[2:34:47] Um, you know, if it it doesn't even feel bad to flood out on the the ramping two cards just because you just start to build up such a stupid high. Yeah, that that died if we got board wiped. Yeah. Uh, I think a fair amount of it was creature based ramp, but I think even if you managed to like fit in as many like rocks or like rampant growth effects as possible, I think you would still have trouble just because uh just drawing rocks feels bad. Drawing explosive vegetation doesn't really feel bad, but drawing rocks does not feel good. Preexian portal. Is there a card called Prexian portal?

[2:35:31] There is a card. If your library has 10 or more cards in it, target opponent looks at the top 10 cards of your library and separates them to two face down piles. Search the other pile for a card. That is a strange card. It's really funny though. That's a really really funny card. I don't think it's what I'm looking for, but it is a really funny card.

[2:36:16] Yeah, semic. I think I'd probably do just Kellen. It I I would probably do Kellen. Do Kellen. Run the companion. You probably have to run a couple extra lands like 40. I'd probably go 43 or 44, maybe some utility lands in there just because Kellen requires having an extra land to put into play. So, you want to be safe. Um, but the fact that you have card draw in the command zone means that I think you can really afford not card draw in the command zone, card draw in the companion zone means I think you can afford to run a little bit more lands. Yes. Currently, my only three color deck is Sheroom.

[2:36:56] Um, I should build some more three-color decks. They're they're they they have some appeal to them. But yes, that is currently the case. let's scoot over to this imscar deck. I feel pretty good about the the green white one. I think that one's pretty solid. This one is I don't think on my profile, but I can definitely link it in the the Yeah, the VOD will be up

[2:38:00] actually. Let me current deck list. There we go. Yeah, this is one that I feel I think is a in a lot more of a hammered out state. Um, it's kind of a fast impure deck. Uh, I spent so long figuring out how to fit Luminar Seras into the budget because it's so good. It's so good in IMSR. You like drop it on three. Some games you can get Imar on four and then sacrifice it immediately get SE uh eight black. It's crazy.

[2:38:41] Um, yeah, this is kind of an an aggressive riff on Imcar. You can definitely do like a more grindy thing with like a bunch of high cost artifacts. Yeah, Spinoish saw definitely is a pretty wild one. This deck I don't think has the the mana production for that. Maybe it does. I don't know. But yeah, I MCQ is a lot of fun. Uh I probably need to look at the removal suite just to make sure I'm able to hit permanent types. Um, I have one, currently. Is it three ways to remove One way to remove enchantments.

[2:39:24] I think Chisori is so good. Slowbad does something similar, but this deck is not running that many high cost artifacts. Um, it is it is a a much more it's it is a fairly low curved ISCR deck. First ability dominant I would say. So we we are looking to draw a lot of cards off of an early Imcare play and leverage that into kind of a a good beatd down game plan. Experimental synthesize. I I looked at that and I I have been destroyed by that card in Popper, but I don't think it actually does anything at all in this deck.

[2:40:08] Um yeah, if the toko is an artifact, maybe. But I don't think so. It's a great card though. I'm glad. I honestly I think the budget deck building is a lot of fun. Oh no, the budget crept up. Uh, it definitely gives you the chance to to to flex some some muscles that you wouldn't normally get to flex. Uh, like just like needing to evaluate every single card like, "Oh god, 96 cents. Can I afford 96 cents? Dear god, that's so Uh, did I still running scraper?

[2:40:53] I think I cut scrapler from this deck. Yeah. No, I uh I I can't decide if I want it or not. Like it's it's a fine card. Um it goes really good if I start doing some sort of like kind of aristocratsy sacrifice thing, but I don't know if that's actually what I'm doing. Uh one card, Fireexian Portal. We have Fireexian Portals greatest soldier here advocating. Um one thing I'm kind of wondering is whether Nimshrier is good enough. Uh because I flying makes it I think better than the rest of the nim. Uh like if I can get like six or eight artifacts that's hitting pretty hard.

[2:41:37] Uh but I don't know. It's It's still kind of a janky nonsense. I I also don't know how much ping there is. I I don't know how much ping to expect to be facing. So, I could see this going kind of uh badly if there's Bing. Sahil's Lattice. I remember it's a two- mana artifact that does something. Yeah, discard a card, draw two cards. Yeah, if I were to kind of push harder into discard themes, I think this would be pretty decent. still might be good enough as things Uh the strafon is just so good.

[2:42:23] Like um first of all, he triggers on life lost by me. So any land that deals damage to me, he triggers. If I play Imcure in the same turn, he triggers. Um and then just like up to four blood tokens a turn is just so much. Like that that's that's a crazy amount of value. Yeah, demonic junker is great. I I I have that in here and it's it's so good. I'm honestly surprised this card doesn't cost more. I feel like this should this is a staple in so many decks. Like just an amazing card. Um but no.

[2:43:04] Yeah, I definitely have uh 70 cents I think is worth it for blood money. Bottlecap blast is also quite good. I don't know if I'm running too much graveyard hate right now. I want to run ra's charm, but it's more sense than I want to put into a removal spell. I think if I were to cut a little bit of value from this deck, Yeah, these are my pricing cards, which I think Yeah, all of these are so good.

[2:43:54] refurbish is here. Uh, I had it Like I I don't think I put it in the interaction actually. I think I put it in the Yeah, there it is. See, I keep looking at Oni Cold Anvil, and it just doesn't seem good. I think I think it's probably good in like a more aristocraty deck. I could definitely see it being good there. U I I actually have three of the one drop artifacts that exile graveyards. Um the the cheaper ones. Uh I hate artifact lands. just so divided on because in principle they're really good with an affinity commander but also 60 cents is is a little rough.

[2:44:45] Yeah, Strafon. Uh yeah, we we don't care about the second line of text there. The first line of text is just really good for getting a bunch of blood tokens every turn. Um, yeah, Blood Money. Yeah, all of these all these slightly pricier cards. Condor. Yeah, Condor is funny. I I kind of went back and forth on that. Arkbound Condor is the Where is it? Oh, yeah, it's right here. It's the four mana flying modular three artifact enter target creature opponent also gets minus one to end turn. I think the fact that it's flying has a decent body and then I I think that should be able to ping like a lot of stuff like if I can play like two or three artifacts a turn and some turns I will be playing more because this is kind of a very tokenheavy deck.

[2:45:40] yeah I am I do yeah I do have morbid curiosity I believe. Um, I also I want to have Imposing Grandeur as well, but uh I just think it's probably worse than just about any other card I can add for a buck 27. Um, I actually cut the Brothers War, which is like kind of a assorted value card, and Imposing Grandur, which is draw equal to the commander mana value and then discard or other order. Um, I cut those two for Illuminor Saras, which is one of the ones that can sack a creature to gain an amount of black equal to the creature's mana value. Uh, I think that's worth it.

[2:46:21] Like, Saras definitely just dies in some cases, like if if the opponents are smart and have removal ready, but if it does survive, it's so Sorry, I have a cat here who wants Hey, buddy. You want to say hi? Yeah, Deadly Dispute is one I've been kind of debating. That's a definitely a pretty good one.

[2:47:16] We got we got Arao in the flesh here. let me see if there were maybe board cards I wanted. Uh, I think so. This card, have any of you played with this card? The Nipton lottery. This is one that like it's a very cheap board wipe in black red which makes it tempting. Uh very cheap four mana board wipe I think is pretty tempting but I don't know how big that downside is. I think in principle this deck is a little bit more aggressive than most. So I think it's okay. But I'm definitely debating whether or not this card is worth it.

[2:48:02] Dargo seems pretty decent here too. see, but that's the Yeah, this deck doesn't actually sacrifice that many artifacts for having an artifact sack commander. Like, it it it has some it has some amount like uh I could do the math, but I I actually don't know how much this deck is going to struggle with life. I I've put in a little bit of life gain. Like I've put in Poet's Quill. I put in anything else. Yeah, I put in like at least one more. Yeah, Mask of Grizzlebrand.

[2:48:43] That's right. So, I put in a couple options for life gain. Um, so I think that's enough, but I really don't know because this this deck definitely is very much a life-paying Deadly Coverup. What are you doing, bud? You want to go find that wasp for me? Uh, a deadly cover up evidence collected.

[2:49:25] Exile card from opponent's graveyard. Then search for seem seems fine. Um, seems more aimed at 60 card formats, I think. True. Ma massacre girl. Massacre girl does exist. Yeah, I I was I know there I was hoping for a better collect evidence thing. I know that that's probably aimed at the 60 card formats. Um, maser girl is okay. Yeah, I probably have enough tokens to enable the maser maybe.

[2:50:06] I don't actually know. Um, but yeah, I might I might at least try out the tip nipton lottery and see how that goes because I think that should be kind of fun. Um, and then my other my other board wipes are great. I love Teresa's Devastation and I love love love Blood Money in this deck. It's so gross. You just blood money play out start popping off. But yeah, I I I I enjoy the Maser Girl. I remember Maser Roll was a staple in the first $25 pool.

[2:50:47] Um just because like a what what's usually a board wipe on a 44 Menace stick is just like really solid. Just a great card. How much How much is this Maser girl these days? Five bucks. Yeah. Yeah. Cover cover up can just be a great XL for sure. Just nail it something. Um I just like the four mana here, I'll probably try it out.

[2:51:28] wonder if there's any other options for life gain in black red. So, that that is an area where I'm a little worried. I think there are there's some like leech gauntlet that I I had considered. Um, there's also like batter bone, which I think is also uh, as just like a, you know, kind of blocker guy that can turn into a Maser worm is definitely good. Yeah, little bit of a different function Whiff.

[2:52:18] Yeah, whiff of Veros would be good if I had more budget. I I I would love something like that. But that one that one I think is that that one has stayed expensive for so long. I underestimated how good. Yes, it's it's seven bucks. I guess it it saw a precon printing, so it's at least gone down a little bit, but yeah. No, giving your whole board lifelink in black is very good. And then wow, that Yeah, that the second ability is just also good. Um, which which makes it for a pretty good package.

[2:53:00] All board wipes is a bracket 2 ED. Bracket one deck. My theme is board Have have fun gamers. Nighthawk Scavenger is definitely decent. Um I I run that in my Malfagore deck actually because that deck is also fairly hungry for life gain. Um but I think that deck is also a lot more amendable to generic. Um, here I would probably prefer to run. God, the equip five on Batterbone sucks. I hate that. That's such a large number. Um, yeah, Pose Quill is just the the best budget lifelink equipment by a long shot.

[2:53:48] I Golem's Heart. Yeah. What What is the text on Golem's Heart? I think it's when you cast an artifact spell. Whenever a player cast an artifact spell, you make um how much life is that could be gaining? I could see that being pretty good. I could see that being pretty good. Yeah, actually though feel a little weird running pure life cards, but I mean let's be honest, Poqu Quill is basically a pure life game card. Gonna toss that in the maybe board for now. Decide a little later if I actually want it.

[2:54:38] You can discard for a Oh. Oh, sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's see what the rate looks like on Cuz if I It's cycling, right? Is that one? I guess I I don't I don't even know if that's the original text. No, it's not the original text. That is the alchemy text. Okay. Oh, right. Carsey Revenant. Carsey Revenant is decent. If I had I'll have to see how heavy my discard package is because my I have a heavy discard package.

[2:55:20] I think Carsy Revenant becomes really decent. Is it still I It shouldn't be one of you. No, maybe it is. Damn. No, that's fair. It's a good card. Yeah, Carsey is lovely, lovely, lovely. My mouth deck. Honestly, I feel like uh after the three-hour bracket 2 game I had in Vegas, I think uh bracket 2 needs not have a whole lot of board wipes or like not have some number of stalling things cuz wow that that can go along.

[2:56:10] Um unbreakable bond is kind of funny. Metamorphosis fanatic is kind of funny. Life encounter and nunch. Yeah. None of these are all that great. I guess alchemist assistant is a is a cheaper version of the the carcy revenant type effect. But I I don't I still don't think that's all that good unless I have a lot of discard. So if I go O discard, I can try blood after this because blood blood is way of discarding. Oh, discard.

[2:56:50] Um, not really. Not really. No, no. Yes. Yes. That's two of those plus the quill. Three Seven ways of discarding total, I would say. So, yeah, that's it's a little awkward. If I if I get more discard in here, I think it becomes pretty decent. But true.

[2:57:36] Yeah, I I can just play it. Um, this deck does try to curve out pretty aggressively, but it it should have extra mana on like turn five usually, sometimes earlier if things aren't going quite to plan. So, you can just kind of swing in a bit. Bracket 2 definitely does have a bit of a winning problem. Um, it's a little bit the scryfall filter fo discard for full full oracle be would be get blood because it lets you search for oracle and reminder text and every that's really good to know.

[2:58:20] I did not know that. Oh, discard. Yeah, that'll get me the quill as well. Yeah, that's that's super helpful. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it hits cycling as well, I guess. Yeah, sure. That's interesting. In some cases, hitting cycling might not be helpful, but that's that's really good to know. True. One one with nothing might might be a little gooded here. Malfore. Let's go. Let's pop off. yeah, I'll need to look at my options for this card.

[2:59:03] This is a this is a very cheap ISA aggressive deck. So, um, I was very happy to see that there was a one of these effects. Um, walking atlas, I think. Yeah, one of those effects that had flying as well. Like, it's just that that's It's a funny little UFO. Now, here's Nightblade. Yeah, I have I have some aristocrat stuff, but I'm I'm not I I'm currently not opting to go very hard on Aristocrat stuff for this deck.

[2:59:47] Um doing a lot more like beatd down stuff. Like I think I have like one, two, three, four, five six. I have seven cards with power temps equal to the number of artifacts you control and then like a doubler and a couple beatd down guys. Some other stuff that goes pretty fast. Um, Herald, an early Herald of Angu, which is gross. Uh, so I this deck is definitely going more for a beatdown windcon rather than aristocrat style thing. Uh, opinions on EDHB the default new player format for overall game format health? Uh, so I wish I wish more people were getting into stuff outside of Commander.

[3:00:33] I think it'd be cool to see more of an emphasis put on draft formats. Um, I would love to see another like conspiracy set. I don't know if that I I I don't have a sense of whether that's a draw to newer players, but I think kind of more casualish limited formats would be or seem like a good way to also get newer players into the game. Um though, aside from that, it's basically just arena. I feel like I don't know if like casual constructed is still a thing. I I really don't have a sense of that being an EDH YouTuber who's been playing the game for like, you know, a long time, 13 years or something.

[3:01:22] Delarium skaines is pretty funny. Oh, yeah. Scourge familiar. That it's the one that disc you discard to get black manor. Yeah, that's that's a wild card. H I can I can see it though, honestly. That's that's not a bad not a bad card. Um because this deck does get like kind of pretty dramatic amounts of card advantage. So, I could definitely see that working out.

[3:02:02] I know. I know. Yeah, dra draft is intimidating. Sealed is intimid or not sealed. Uh cube is intimidating. I like to think that sealed is more a better jumping in point. Um although I know it can still be overwhelming. Like there's just naturally going to be some players who are kind of, you know, quicker at deck building earlier in their magic career than others. Um because I've definitely, you know, I've seen players where you kind of get them into the game and they're, you know, kind of getting it putting it putting together stuff. It might not be the best deck, but at least they're like able to like put together something. Whereas there are definitely other players who like it kind of takes them a bit to get that deck building impulse.

[3:02:44] So, Scourge Familiar is not an okay card, man. Man, Otter Otter TV, you're still you're still pushing that for Xium Oh, wow. I I feel like Yeah, Dice, dude. I feel like jump start is potentially a really good onboarding route for newer players. Um, I also feel like that you can build I feel like you can build like a jump start format that is interesting to older players as well.

[3:03:30] Like I feel like there are ways to give a little bit of kind of curation and uh customization feel um while still keeping it very approachable. That's definitely an area I think it would be cool to explore more for sure. I don't know if I would say the closest thing to casual constructed is Popper, but I also don't have a sense of how wide the brewing is in Popper versus Standard. I I think it is pretty wide in Popper. Um in current standard, who knows?

[3:04:12] Uh, but yeah, Pop definitely Popper has a pretty like fast aggressive metag game. Um, it's it's still like a very kind of the decks tend to be pretty simple, so I think it's still decent in that way. yeah, I don't know. It definitely depends on the player. I think EDH is nice because you can build a deck and hop into a game without needing to follow any sort of metag game or be competitive in any way. So, I don't know. I popper popper could be the solution for some people.

[3:04:54] I think if they're just looking for a simple deck and they're willing to get kind of into the the the kind of intense deck building aspect of it, willing to like make a deck that does some good stuff by turn four because that really is what you need to do to survive in Popper is you need to, you know, be developing stuff fast or, you know, building up suppression fast. I don't know. Do I think I will do another $25 deck pool? Uh, stay tuned.

[3:05:35] Not going to get too much more into it than that. They do jump start cubes, battle boxes, too. I like the idea of commander jump start with random partner commanders. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I wonder in theory like you could I think if you're willing to break color restrictions, there are some cool like commander cube options. Like if you give people like a uh a jump start set where there's like one default commander, but then you can there are like a handful of other legendary creatures within the jump start pools. I think that that could be pretty cool.

[3:06:15] um give you a lot of Uh so there are definitely option although I I kind of wonder who Commander Cube is for. Um because I know in my ideal world, Commander Cube would be a way to get Commander players into Cube. Um but I think that that might be wishful thinking on my part. 15 card pioneer. 15 card pioneer Highlander. That's wild.

[3:06:57] That's really funny. Yeah. I I think if you have a bunch of people with like a brewer's instinct, uh I think doing some sort of custom format is super super cool. Um, and that can be like a really Yeah, doing Yeah, custom formats can be so cool if you can like uh construct them in a way where they're balanced, but also like the the kind of possibility space of it isn't too like the possibility space of it isn't too tight. Like you can you can or too figured out. I think there there's a lot of cool stuff you can do.

[3:07:44] Elder Kellen Highlander. There are a lot of Kellins. Yeah, Whippos is a really really good card. So, I I I always wish it wasn't money, but uh it it it is it is a very very good card and I understand why. This conversation also reminds me of Dan Dan. Yeah, Dan Dan. I don't know who Dan Dan is for. That's an interesting format. I don't Uh, I think in principle it makes for a I I like the idea of it.

[3:08:31] Like I like the idea of using cards in creative ways, like in a shared deck. Um, I think that's that's the sort of thing that uh makes for some cool custom formats is kind of breaking out cards into new or different use cases. Um, I think the blue Dandan list in particular doesn't really appeal to me personally, but uh I think in principle it could be cool. So there there is Jack Pups and bird.

[3:09:13] That's hilarious. they're definitely red versions of Dan Dan. I don't remember what the core card red dandan. Sure. I'll click on this top Moxfield deck called Red Dan Dan Craig.

[3:09:56] Sorry. Oh, that's so good. Oh, no. I love it. Oh Lord, what on earth? We got like a bunch of ping. Little bit of ping. Shake. Yeah, shake the foundations. It's got to be crazy here. Um, so how auto include is whip of I so, so I think, uh, I like to keep my budget decks pretty budget generally.

[3:10:41] um like like both for for like obviously I don't need to buy cards for a reason, but also just keep the list that way even if I have access to more expensive cards. Um that is partially because I'm a YouTuber and if I have public decks, it's nice if they are budget. You know, if people stroll over to my Malfagore deck and they see it's like a, you know, $100 deck or whatever, that's a lot better than if they stroll over to it and see it's a $200 deck or something. Um, so I like that aspect of it. And then also just like for some decks I find it better to put a budget cap on it. Specifically, budget works as a kind of standin for power in some ways.

[3:11:22] Not not in all ways, but in some ways. Um, that's kind of what I do with my rata deck is, you know, keeping out the expensive cards keeps out some amount of stuff that I wouldn't find as interesting. So, I think that's that's another reason to run uh budget stuff for me at least. Um unrelated, but if I run Possibility Storm and Unrelated, but if I run Possibility Storm in all my red decks, am I a bad person? Uh see, I feel like Possibility Storm is like a chaos card that feels like a stacks piece. Uh, right. Like that that it's like one of the most staxy chaos cards.

[3:12:03] I don't know. It's it's funny. I definitely wouldn't run it in every deck, but I think Possibility Storm is more justifiable to me than something like Warp World um or something similar like Yeah, Whip of Arabos. I specifically definitely have some nostalgia for because uh I my original commander deck was mono black built during born of the gods. So uh I I was I was hype on that whip of Arabos.

[3:12:45] I was hype on that Arabos. I was you know enjoying all sorts of that Yeah. pro proxy everything is, you know, that's that's a that's a valid move. Um, I definitely think being open to proxying is good and I I probably I'm probably going to try and build a cube at some point later this year and I'll definitely proxy that because buying that is expensive if you're running kind of nice cards. But yeah, I don't know. I usually buy paper cards for my decks just because it's I don't really have a reason. I just kind of like having them in paper.

[3:13:45] Commander costs at most 10 rails without the commander. That is like $2. Wow. That's wild. I respect it though. That's that's that's kind of fun. Proxing your booger blue players. Proxy is definitely great for testing a deck. Um, yeah, it's it's just nice in general if you don't want to like have a collection. Um, cuz like there are times when it's like, okay, I pull a card, I'll see if I need it for a deck later, that can be kind of nice because you can just put put together decks on the fly.

[3:14:33] Um, but if you're not having a collection, not having like a major group of cards, then yeah, proxying works just fine. FX. Okay, I will say Fxyian Portal did not fit in either of these decks. It does not make sense in either place. However, that's a really funny card. So, I I might try and find a deck for it at some point. I I do enjoy because it is just like a decent colorless value engine. I mean, it exiles your deck pretty fast, I think, because it you exile Yeah, theoretically can exile your deck pretty fast, but it's still pretty All right.

[3:15:27] Well, I think I am kind of done with my deck building for the morning. Uh, so I am probably going to sign off here, but uh I will most likely be streaming either tomorrow or the day after doing some MTGO gameplay. Uh, so that that should be kind of fun to get some standard gameplay happening. Maybe Vintage Cube. We'll see. I've considered adding a color Dorado, but I just I don't I I don't feel like bothering really. You know, I I like the deck in green red. I think if I was trying to build like the best possible version of that deck, I might add a color, but I'm really not.

[3:16:09] I think that the deck as it is works pretty good. I feel like we've done some chat about custom formats on Magic Mirror. I think it was on the episode uh in December that went with my video about uh what EDH only players miss. So, if you check out the a December episode, I think we did a fair amount of custom format discussion there. I might even be able to link it. Let me see.

[3:17:09] Hello. Hello and welcome to the Magic Mirror podcast. I'm your host Khan the Trinket Mage and with me is my co-host 33 Elk. Hi Elk. Let me see what players miss out on. Yeah. Yeah, this this is the one. I'll drop a I'll drop a link to that. that's that's a good discussion of custom formats. Um, all right, with that I am headed out. Lovely to have you all here with me.
