# I Was Given Three Perplexing Cards to Build a Deck With
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/0tOkVJcibDw
date: 2025-05-26 | views: 71,551 | likes: 3,266 | comments: 223 | length: 12:59 | words: 2,736 | wpm: 211.7
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 0:59 Birthing Ritual; 2:27 Sibig; 3:39 Ename; 4:30 Sacrifice; 5:50 Spirits; 6:44 Lands; 7:39 Setup; 11:10 Conclusion

[0:00] What would happen if somebody just handed you three strange magic cards and asked you to build a commander deck around them? Could you do it? Recently, I asked my patrons what cards they wanted to see me play in a deck. And then I ran a poll to decide the three I'd be building with. The results, the S6 ceremony, Aether Vile, and Birthing Ritual. The S6 ceremony was the card that by far the most people wanted to see. And this Tarker Dragon Storm enchantment makes all of our creatures cost two colorless less, but destroys them when they enter. if we cast them, replacing them with a zombie. This is definitely a big downside, but the silver lining here is that the two other cards offer ways to get quizers into play without casting them. Birthing ritual is a two- mana enchantment that offers a sort of limited birthing pot effect, letting us look at the top seven cards of our library on each endstep and sacrifice a creature to replace it with one from those cards.

[0:50] Ether Vile is a much older card, a one mana artifact that can gain a counter on our upkeep and which taps to put a creature with mana value equal to the number of counters on it into play. So where to start here? For one, we're in at least Golgari colors and with a triple black on the S6 ceremony, we're going to be hardressed to push too far beyond that without some herborg oriented assistance. All three of these cards care about creatures and some of them care about creatures kind of a lot. Birthing ritual is probably the lowest commitment card here. It has a low mana cost, relatively flexible criteria for potting things, and you get to see all your options before sacrificing. Really, the only thing this needs to work well is a moderately large creature count, though, it can also help to have a decent spread between mana values to allow stairstepping up in mana costs.

[1:35] Speaking of which, let's talk about Eether. It's a card traditionally played in heavily creature-based decks with relatively low average mana values. Typically, you drop it early, get it up to two or three counters, and then pop out extra dudes at instant speed for the rest of the game. This makes sense in a fast 60 card deck, but what about in an EDH deck? The effect of deploying creatures more rapidly isn't such a guaranteed benefit in the slower, typically higher curved EDH format. The card also doesn't do anything immediately after played, which certainly doesn't spell success for a card in EDH, but maybe there's a niche for it. It's still a lowcost card and the instant speed might be useful in some instances. Like birthing ritual, this card is going to be looking for a high creature count to be useful and preferably a relatively low average mana cost among those creatures so that the card is actually able to feel impactful in the first couple turns after it's been played.

[2:27] The most challenging thing here is definitely the SIC ceremony, and that's because it comes with a fat downside. Your creatures literally get destroyed as soon as they enter. Among the five commanders this currently sees significant play in, none include green. So, we're going to have to get creative here. One of the issues in commander selection is that even if a commander works well once it's on the board with Sip Sig in play, you're constrained to playing the commander before the enchantment. And if your commander ever gets removed, Sibig is going to make it tricky to get back onto board. This isn't to say there are no solutions to this, though. Indestructible works since Sibig destroys the creatures rather than making you sacrifice them. And this leaves a handful of options such as sapling of Kulanor, Cotis, most gods, and any partner pair that includes Anara.

[3:12] There are also other commanders that can be made to have indestructible if you build them right. The mopplasm can copy a creature with indestructible, and Indoraptor will likewise be indestructible if you have an indestructible creature to discard. You could also run some cards in the 99 that regenerate a creature or return it to play when it dies, pull a scam on your opponents. But what about the final option, the forbidden option? What if your commander wants to die? This brings me to my choice of champion, Ename. This is a 12- mana 88 that if played from hand, tutors out a spirit into play when it enters and recurs a spirit to play when it dies. But what sorts of spirits might you want to tutor and recur?

[3:52] Well, how about Ename? Here's the default plan when we cast our commander from hand with the Sipstick Ceremony in play. Ename is one. enters. Two triggers go on the stack. One to destroy it, the other to tutor out a spirit. We choose to resolve the spirit searching first and tutor out ename death aspect. When this card enters, it searches our library for any number of spirits and puts them into our graveyard. We put whichever spirits we like into our graveyard with one of them being ename aspect. Now the sipstick trigger on ename resolves and it dies creating a zombie. And then this death trigger happens putting enamepect back into play. Now, what happens from here? Honestly, could be a lot of things, but ideally, if life aspect is indeed your choice to recur, you've got some way or other to sacrifice it.

[4:39] One of these would be birthing ritual, but there are several others. Illuminor Saras can sacrifice this iname for mana. Greater good can draw some cards. He who hungers can force an opponent to discard something, and so on. 10 cards in total. This might seem like a lot of sacrifice just to enable one single element of our plan, but something I noticed early on in building is that sacrifice outlets are actually pretty sweet with the S6 ceremony in general because it destroys the creatures. So, you've got all these creatures that are going to die anyway, and you may as well sacrifice them and get something out of them. There are even some things that care about power or mana value, and for those, sacrificing Ename itself can be a fantastic power burst in an already big turn.

[5:21] In some sense, this game plan may seem like a combo, but in truth, having as many of its spirits in hand as it wants does not win the game. It certainly makes it easier and will lead to rapid victory sometimes with the right prerequisites, but I didn't feel like hammering this deck's commander plan into a consistent win for reasons that may become clear a bit later. No, instead, this deck is a patchwork of different payoffs and windcons that align with the central pillars of this deck that we've laid out. First off, there's a perfectly adequate spirits mid-range plan. A couple Miojin exist as top-end indestructible threats, one of which being Mojin of Life's Web that can dump a loaded hand onto the board in short order. There are also several spirits with effects that happen when spirit or arcane cards are played.

[6:03] Infernal Kieran strips out opposing hands. Kodama of the south tree pumps our board, zombies included, and kodama of the east tree can allow for quicker deployment of spirits. Getting these out safely with the Sibstix ceremony in play can be tricky, but there are a few options. One of these would be to regenerate a creature with a cursed dunyard, and another would be to use the front side of Malacher Rebirth or Revitalizing Rift Pass to keep the creature in question alive. The final option is Ether Vile. Though this deck doesn't fit the conventional mana curve of an ether vile deck, it is at least somewhat predictable in what spirits it will have available and can plan ahead to have a certain number of counters for a pivotal turn based on what seems like will be the best play. The other major option for a windcon here is the lands package.

[6:45] And this actually came about quite organically. First, a number of specific lands really help out with our game plan. Herborg for casting the Sipstick Ceremony, Relicory Tower for holding a fat hand of spirits, a cursed dunyard for getting around the Sibic ceremony, Command Beacon for getting Ename into hand, and a few second tier lands as well. In addition, a number of cards that naturally fit into the deck just inherently work well with a lands package. Kura is a classic lands card that's also a spirit with a death trigger. White of the Reoquary is a lovely sackability zombie, and Spirit of the Algard is a friendly bear who can find us a dark depths. So, here in lies the final windcon. Field of the dead can get us even more zombies.

[7:25] Dark depths can do its dark and depthy things. And a couple mainlands can swing real big as a result of this deck's strange quirks. So, that's how this deck tries to run to the finish line, but it would be a little unfair for me to not talk about the setup steps. Like, sure, for some decks, you can start the game plan at casting the commander, but getting to that point is in this case a bit of a herculean task. The card is 12 mana and relevantly we need to get it into our hand before playing it. The ETB doesn't happen if we cast it from the command zone. So, let's start there. In this deck, there are four cards that allow for getting our commander out of the command zone. Campfire, netherbborne alter, road of return, and command beacon.

[8:06] And getting one of these will naturally be a requirement for any sort of commander-based gameplay, unless we're real down bad for a recursion spell. Next up, the 12 mana part. That's a lot of mana, but thankfully there's a decent amount of highc caliber ramp that slots nicely into this deck. There are several ramp sources that are spirits as well, and these include a handful of spirit or arcane effect cards from the original Kamagawa, as well as cryptast, which is a fantastic card if we can get herborg into play. Joining these is Illumineras and Sulvi Adnate, which we'd prefer to use on one of the ename to get a massive surge of mana, but these can also help build up to a commander cast in a pinch as well. Finally, there are a few other ramp cards that just happen to be lovely in this particular deck with those including Enduring Vitality, Seance Board, and the affforementioned White of the Reoquary.

[8:54] Joining these is a decent draw suite as well. 14 cards if I include Birthing Ritual among them, which I am choosing to do. And if you have issues with that, I recommend you leave a comment telling me all about it. Many of these are quite large scale draw, drawing potentially five or more cards given average circumstances. And my hope is that pairing this with the similarly potent ramp suite should allow the deck to consistently climb in mana and get where it needs to go. I'm also running four tutors to find the Sipstick Ceremony or other key pieces, which isn't a massive number, but should be enough with the other draw present. In the ideal world, I'd love to go even a little bit higher with each of these values. But one thing this deck doesn't have is a lot of extra space to work with. I'm already spending a bunch of slots just making my questionable commander even functional.

[9:37] and adding more draw and ramp would inevitably end up eating to something else. My amount of interaction is already lower than I'd like. So, the only way to make more space would be to cut spirits, which would weaken my spirit synergy cards and give me fewer options once I'm doing Iname oriented things. Ultimately, the version of this list I have right now seems decently enough balanced between its different goals. Able to play as a sort of aristocraty spirit mid-range deck, but also able to make some big plays with its commander once a handful of different conditions are met. It could be cool to do a variant on this deck that emphasizes a different part of the game plan more heavily. But with this deck, I think I've constructed a pretty reasonable middle- of the road approach. However, this process left me wondering what else could be done with these three cards I built a deck around.

[10:22] So, I challenged a few other content creators to make a deck with the same prompt, and they rose to the challenge. The trinket mage made a Cody Viciferous Codeex donate deck where the goal is to donate pesky permanence to opponents such as the Sibic ceremony, steel golem, or even Cody itself. There's also some amount of permanent swapping, theft, and threaten effects here. And birthing ritual exists to sacrifice a threatened creature before it could return to its owner's control. Free three elk made a ball lord of murder counter manipulation and graveyard nonsense deck. Birthing ritual is great all around in this sort of shell. Aether Val can get combo pieces deployed for explosive turns. And the Sipstick Ceremony is used alongside cheap colorless creatures to fuel evolution witness creature looping combos.

[11:03] This is a different approach than I took and there's less broad synergy with the Sipstick Ceremony, but much more explosive combo potential with it. Quips and Guac also picked out Forgotten Realms God. Merkel, Lord of Bones. This card is pretty neat with Sipix Ceremony because when it destroys your creatures, they simply come back as enchantments. Merkel also has an indestructible clause, so there's a decent chance of being able to get it back out at some point if it gets deleted with the C6 ceremony on board. And this deck packs a whole lot of ramp to pay for expensive plays with its commander. Arcosa built a Tai combo deck. Ether Vile and Birthing Ritual are solid here since a large portion of the deck is one to three mana creatures, and the Sipstick Ceremony helps out with multiple of the deck's combo lines. Gravequaler definitely stands out as a card the Cypic Ceremony really works well alongside since it provides a zombie and doubles the amount of potential sack triggers per cast.

[11:52] Blood artist built a sultai mid-range deck around teal the balanced scale. This is a heavily creaturebased deck to support birthing ritual and ether vile and we can see a number of coolic ceremony interactions here. Lots of sack outlets, lots of ETBs and death abilities, a ton of recursion for looping ETB and death abilities, and a number of leaving graveyard payoffs for generating value all in the process. Thanks to these five for taking a crack at this. I love all the cool ideas here. And honestly, I'm sure there are plenty of other neat ideas out there, too. Let me know in the comments if you have any thoughts of what to do with these three cards. I do actually read them, and I love hearing all sorts of creative thoughts from people. With that said, thanks for watching, and thanks to Architect for supporting the channel. I'm always so glad to be an architect user when I'm building highly conceptual decks like this due to all of its great features for analyzing what I'm building.

[12:36] With a two-cond little search, I can isolate the spirits in the deck and look at just those cards to see what's there, both in my main board and in my baby board. A link to this deck is down in the description. I also want to thank my patrons, some of whom are on screen now. If you want to support what I do on this channel, a link to my Patreon is down in the description. Finally, I was on an episode of Extra Returns that recently
