# Why I Built a Deck With Way Too Many Subthemes
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/3B4UZgJ3LE0
date: 2025-09-12 | views: 41,083 | likes: 1,780 | comments: 210 | length: 16:19 | words: 3,364 | wpm: 206.3

[0:00] Earlier this year, the bracket system was rolled out in the commander format, providing guidelines for separating decks into different rough groupings to be played together. Soon after, though, I noticed a problem. I didn't have any bracket 2 decks. I had a lovely variety of different bracket 3 decks from battle cruiser to aggro to control to low slung staxi mid-range, but nothing I'd feel comfortable consistently pulling out in games against three precons or equivalent decks. At least not without the expectation of playing a 1v3 archeneemy sort of role. So, that seemed like a problem worth remedying. Now, I had built a lower power deck in the past. A couple years previously, I'd built a skeleton ship proliferate deck, and that was kind of funny, but it was lower power purely because it ran a hot garbage commander and a number of hot garbage cards in the 99, such as Shrine of Piercing Vision, Mindless Automaton, Time Bomb, and a whole four of the '90s storage lands that couldn't tap for non-stored mana.

[0:54] It was funny, but the play pattern was jarring with the deck being glacially slow to get going, but potentially quite oppressive in the late game if it was left alone to fully build up an engine. You can probably imagine why I mostly stopped playing this deck. One alternative for having a bracket 2 deck would be just buying a precon and maybe doing a slight round of upgrades or sidegrades, but I wanted something that felt more my own than that. There's also another problem with both precons and the skeleton ship deck. They feel kind of sub-optimal. This probably sounds like a very silly criticism of a deck intended to play in relatively low power games, but I really like the process of tightening up a deck's cohesion, of finding the perfect cards for its mechanical needs.

[1:35] The process of turning a deck into a machine that does something. I like that process, and I like to play decks that feel like they're performing the role I want them to perform as well as they can. Immediately, this is a bit of a conflict. This preference for optimization works fine for bracket 3 because there are a whole lot of somewhat funky ideas whose optimized version ends up in that sort of nice midpower zone. But bracket 2 is harder. What sort of idea is so inherently mediocre that optimizing it ends up at the power level of a precon? In this case, I actually took inspiration from precons themselves. See, preconstructed commander decks are typically unfocused by design. They feature slightly too many themes and elements because they're trying to give players a taste of different play styles and also give some easy paths to upgrade a given deck, such as cutting a singular sub theme for some more relevant stuff.

[2:26] So, what if I did the same thing but on overdrive? What if I built a deck with way too many sub themes, like a truly irresponsible number of sub themes, and then tried my hardest to optimize it into a workable deck list? Thus began the process of building Farrexian flavored subthe soup. Longtime snail heads out there might remember that I hated Glista Sunslayer battle cruiser deck a while back. And while I love Glysa as a character, both that deck and that Glyissa ran a bit generic for my tastes. Glya the traitor could be fun as an old school sort of commander choice, but that one is actually a bit too specific for my purposes here with a setup and payoff that don't offer a super wide variety of options.

[3:08] However, there's another green black option, and that one actually lands right in the sweet spot for me. Glya, Herold of Predation. This is a five mana 35 that offers a choice at the beginning of combat on your turn. Incubate two twice, flip all of your incubator tokens, or give your Forexians first strike and death touch until end of turn. Incubate as a mechanic is pretty unique. It creates a non-creature artifact token with plus one plus1 counters on it that can later be flipped into a Forexian artifact creature by paying two mana. Obviously, this lends itself to a deck that cares about counters. So, we'll call that sub theme number one. But honestly, the first thing I noticed about this glitza is wow, this card generates a lot of artifact tokens.

[3:48] There's a number of fairly straightforward ways to take advantage of having artifact tokens. Cards like Terrion's Journal and Aviscerator's Insight sacrifice artifacts to draw. Monumental Corruption can either be a big draw spell or a player killing spell depending on the artifact count. And Throne of Gath is a potent one card engine with the commander, also boosting the counter theme. So, for our purposes here, having a lot of artifacts is subthe number two, and it's one of the more central themes here. It also contains arguably the deck's most powerful card and one that inspired much of the rest of the list, Clock of Omens. This is a four- mana artifact that allows a player to tap two artifacts to untap a different artifact. And while it's not quite a combo piece here, I think it still has the potential for some big turns.

[4:31] The most basic version of that is with some of my bigger counterbased mana rocks. Repeatedly tapping and untapping Everflowing Chalice, Astral Cornucopia, or Empowered Auto Generator can really push the deck's mana into new territory and let it do some big plays. There are a lot of other options as well, though. Idol of Oblivion for card draw, Staff of Completion for Proliferates and more, and both Twitching Doll and Lux Cannon as cool cards that also use counters. The deck contains a couple other options for untapping, but it does sometimes run into a problem. Not all of the cool tap abilities I want to run and repeat are on artifacts. I have cards like Plaguema Beast and White of the Requary that take advantage of my tokens, and I'd quite like to activate them repeatedly after flipping a bunch of incubators with Glysa.

[5:14] So, what if I just turned them into artifacts? Enter the Liquid Metal package. This features Liquid Metal Torque and Farrexian Scriptures, both cards that turn a quizure into an artifact creature, as well as being a manor and a boardweight, respectively. This package also contains two other cards, and these are actually my two favorite cards in the deck, Dollhouse of Horrors and Nexus of Becoming. Both of these cards create token copies of cards that are also artifact creature constructs with Dollhouse doing this by exiling creatures from the graveyard and Nexus doing this by exiling artifacts or creatures from a player's hand. The downside of exiling the copied card is certainly real, but the potential volume of liquid creature creation is really potent here.

[5:58] And due to a particular quirk of these cards, they're able to form the bedrock for yet another one of the deck sub themes, token copy populate. Since the artifact creature copies created by Nexus and Dollhouse are tokens, they can be further copied by cards like Celelesnia eulogist and Esus chariot cards that copy tokens. This can allow for some nutty levels of advantage building. And to improve the odds for things to come together, I threw in a few extra token copy generators as well. This still isn't a huge package, just five setup and four payoff, but most of these cards are fine enough on their own, and the payoff for putting them together can be pretty huge. A late addition to this deck was a graveyard sub theme. I adore Dollhouse of Horrors, and on paper, it's perfect for this deck, but too often in my early games, I was finding myself without much to do with it, making copies of maybe one or two creatures, but not feeling like I was getting anywhere close to the full potential of the card.

[6:52] This was also my experience with another card I like, Vat of Rebirth. So, I decided to help these cards out with the addition of some other graveyard payoffs, and especially some more graveyard enablers. I went with mostly flexible options here. Milikin as a card that's also a manador. Sarinth steelseeker as a sort of value engine that works well with my artifact tokens. Old rustine as a card that also itself pushes my tokens plan. And Tyar as a planaineswalker that also ties into activated abilities. Okay, so with the graveyard package covered, we've capped off the list of all the major sub themes, but there are a few more minor packages as well. The deck runs a constructs package with scrapyard recombiner, which gives it access to a removal spell and a few synergy options of different calibers.

[7:34] There's also five cards that create power stones, which can pay for one of the next 31 artifacts, one of the deck's 23 cards with a colorless mana payable activated ability, or any one of the incubator tokens Gissa makes. For the weirdest little tidbit here, the deck can actually populate incubator tokens. This might seem bad since the copy won't enter with counters and will instantly die when flipped or instantly instantly if it's already on the creature side, but this actually allows for ondemand usage of ondeath trigger cards like draw scorpion and morbid opportunist without needing a sack outlet. Sort of like aristocrats without the aristocrats, I guess. So, this deck kind of does a little bit of everything. And all of that everything is anchored by Glysa.

[8:15] The artifact tokens she provides certainly are a big help for sacrificing and whatnot, but the biggest thing Glya does is provide the deck with a reliable windcon. Typically, I'll try to ramp out Glissel on turn four and start gradually accumulating incubators. Maybe sacrificing one here or there. Once that's up and chugging, I can just focus on cobbling together whatever stupid little engine I have the tools to create. Whether that be a value engine, a ramp engine, a removal engine, or some combination of these things. What's important is that I eventually find my way to some proliferate, at which point I can use my resource advantage to amplify the counters on my accumulated tokens before having Glysa flip them, allowing me to swing big at an opponent. The fact that such an absurdly complex and multifaceted deck typically wins by swinging in with a bunch of vanilla 66s is a pretty juicy morsel of irony, and it really lets the deck feel truly belonging in bracket 2.

[9:05] And actually, this feature about the deck is part of what helps it stay comfortably bracket 2. In theory, this deck has some gross plays. First of all, there's an infinite mana combo that involves popping out empowered autogenerator as a creature with Nexus of Becoming before repeatedly untapping it with Voltaic Construct the following turn. It's a rather strange one and requires a non-trivial amount of setup, but it still is a three-card infinite combo. In addition, the deck features some pretty powerful cards like Clock of Omens, Kudo the Forgemaster, and Staff of Completion, and these can help the deck assemble some pretty disgusting engines. Despite this, I have not once had a win with this deck that didn't heavily involve Kissa, and that puts a natural cap on things. As long as she's out, I get two incubators per turn, but that's all I get.

[9:48] I can make them bigger, in some cases a lot bigger if I have a proliferate engine really pop off, but I'm still going to be winning the game with a fairly ordinary and extremely predictable number of most likely vanilla creatures. So, that's the deck, and I do find it quite fun, but I worry that the process of describing it might be making it seem a bit more functional than it actually is. A deck that tries to cram in as many sub themes as possible is naturally going to struggle with dead cards when the cards intended to work with those cards decide not to show up. The only deck I have that comes even close to this one in terms of complexity is my Sharon deck, but there's a pretty clear difference between these two. That deck is a toolbox deck that runs 11 conditional tutors to help it piece together engines, whereas this deck has two tutors.

[10:31] I don't know if there's been an exact tutor limit given for bracket 2, but I've heard the number three floated around and that felt like a nice number to shoot for here that would force some creative workarounds without being an outright barrier against tutoring. All this to say, with the daring vision and self-imposed restrictions I had going into this deck, dead cards were inevitably going to be a challenge. So, how does this deck mitigate that? A big one is that I try pretty hard not to let a card perform only one task for the deck. There is no generic removal here. When I highlight the cards in my interaction suite that proliferate, use counters or are lands in architect. That excludes only five cards and all of those either fit into another sub theme or have some sort of useful synergy in a removal engine.

[11:13] The same goes for ramp. Of the next 19 cards that perform some sort of ramp function, the two most generic are Golgari Signant and Talisman of Resilience, with every single other one evolving counters, producing power zones, or otherwise slotting into one of the deck's themes. Likewise for draw, with morbid opportunist being by far the most generic of the deck's 17 sources of value. And that's even considering the weird populate trick I mentioned earlier. Something else you might notice here is that the number of ramp and draw spells are fairly high. And this is another pretty essential feature for letting the deck run smoothly. Since there are singledigit counts of setup and payoff for a number of different sub themes throughout the deck, it becomes very important to see more of the deck in order to piece together engines.

[11:54] I actually bought a couple draw engines on the convention floor at Magic on Vegas because I was noticing some light stallouts in the games I was playing. And sure enough, that helped out the deck quite a bit. This also applies to ramp since there's no guarantee that the lowcost cards I have available will be what I'm looking for in a given moment. Having some extra ramp to let me use activated abilities and more expensive cards instead also contributes a bit of flexibility. Having a high count of ramp is also quite helpful since the deck has a relatively high mana commander that's central to its game plan. And always having the mana to replay her kind of lets me avoid needing to think too hard about how consistent my alternate windcons are. Despite this effort, there are still ongoing challenges here. Some sub themes just don't really have cards that are good on their own or which tie to other themes.

[12:38] Selelesnia eulogist and rootcast apprenticeship are both somewhat subpar interaction if I don't have token copies and the two non-clock untapping effects are both fairly restrictive in their effect even if their ceiling is high. And that's to say nothing of the graveyard package. I might have made it sound like I had the problem of not enough cards for dollhouse to reanimate and I solved it by adding four or five graveyard enablers, but honestly it still feels like barely enough. The card still runs out of useful stuff to copy pretty regularly. In addition, there's another card I want to add to this deck. God Pharaoh's Gift has a higher upfront cost, but is otherwise pretty similar to Dollhouse of Horrors, making token copies of creatures in graveyard by exiling them.

[13:18] This is another one of my favorite cards, but it currently makes no sense at all here. It' have the same problems as Dollhouse in not having enough targets to copy, and it doesn't even tie into the tap on tap, liquid metal, or construct sub themes like Dollhouse does. There are two problems with the graveyard package. currently only six cards that put cards into the yard at the moment and only 23 total creatures in the deck. It's kind of discouraging to do the math on this. If I've gone through 20 cards of my deck, I've only seen four or five creatures. And the number of those that have made their way to the graveyard is almost certainly less than that. Current goals for the deck are increasing the creature count, finding a third tutor for the deck that alleviates some current challenges, and possibly flushing out other packages as well.

[14:00] My maybe board on Architect goes kind of crazy. I have four different categories of possible additions within the maybe board in addition to a more generic category. If you have ideas for how to cram more deck into this deck, please let me know. I'd genuinely love to hear them. It's funny when I think about what advice I'd give if somebody else presented this deck to me saying they wanted to make it better because the answer is obviously please cut some sub themes. You have way too many of them. Why am I spending deck space on tap on tap cards other than Clock of Omens? Why am I going to the effort of a copy populate package? Why am I bothering to integrate graveyard synergies into this? Why am I even thinking about our aristocratless aristocrats? A sensible player trying to improve this would cut most of the graveyard support, at least two of the populate cards and all of the token copy cards aside from Nexus of Becoming.

[14:48] But that's the joy of this deck to me. I shouldn't be doing what I'm doing if I wanted a deck that plays smoothly. And the fact that I'm doing it anyway is what makes this a bracket 2 deck. It's the same reason this deck includes some kind of not great proliferate cards. Would a sensible player trying to upgrade this deck include Plaguema Beast, Carnivorous Canopy, and Spread the Sickness? Probably not, but it's not like I'm going to be playing these flavorful cards anywhere else. And here, they're fine. They feel acceptable, and that's pretty cool if you ask me. Thanks for watching. I talked a bit about my skeleton ship deck in this video, and if you want to know more about that, I posted a short video for supporters discussing that deck, its play patterns, its pitfalls, and some of the dumbest games I had with it.

[15:29] If you want the full version, you can join my Patreon or become a YouTube member, but there will be a sneak preview for it in about 10 seconds. I also released an older patron video about my original Glista deck over on my second channel with some included commentary of why I swapped it out for a new deck, so you can also check that out. With that said, it's time to enter the bone zone. I find skeleton ship very funny in the sense that it's from the era of Magic where somebody would go, "Well, of course you need an island in play. It's a ship." I actually intentionally ran a somewhat low count of islands just so I'd occasionally not have one and get to go, "Ah, shoot. I can't cast my ship yet." Though, realistically, this wasn't actually shooting myself in the foot because I didn't cast my commander most games, even when I had an island out.

[16:13] There was simply always something better I could be doing with my mana than spending five of it on a very slow
