# What happens when you delete the wincons in a high power deck?
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/61SV6wUoI7w
date: 2026-08-27 | views: 101,971 | likes: 1,507 | comments: 146 | length: 12:09 | words: 2,525 | wpm: 207.9
chapters: 0:00 Swapping deck power levels; 0:46 Analyzing the original deck; 1:58 Defining the power pivot; 3:12 Gameplay feel of the variant; 4:41 Resource management dynamics; 6:12 Pub stomp simulator explained; 7:20 Collapsing under own weight; 8:21 Perception at the game store; 9:31 The role of deck telegraphing; 11:01 Final thoughts and closing

[0:00] I removed the core combo for my bracket four pirate deck along with some of the supporting cards for it, replacing them with some more generalist cards along with a couple bizarre finishers. Well, it wasn't exactly a replacement. The original deck is still fully playable, but I made a 10-card swap-out package that could be implemented to move the deck down from a cutthroat high-power combo deck that usually wins on turn five to a grandier pirate mid-range deck that usually wins on more like turn eight to 10. On the surface, that sounds fine, great even. I have a deck whose core I like and I get to split it into a high-powered bracket four style version and a more mid-powered three style version. However, the resulting theoretically mid-powered deck feels very strange to play and I think it points to some odd truths about what it means for a deck to be a particular power level.

[0:46] Something that might have already caught your attention is that 10 card number. A firmly bracket four deck is really just 10 cards from being a totally fair bracket three deck? And this wasn't swapping 10 good cards for 10 bad cards either. This was more like swapping one insanely good card and nine highly specific support cards for 10 generally decent cards. So, how does that work? Well, to get into that, I need to start by covering what the original deck does. This deck was intended to be the most powerful possible pirate deck I could make on a $100 budget and it does so by leveraging its command zone extremely aggressively. Princess is a two-mana flying pirate that filters whenever one or more pirates hit an opponent and Malcolm is a three-mana flying pirate that makes a treasure whenever one or more of my pirates hit an opponent.

[1:29] So, the core of this deck ended up being these two paired with a one-mana pirate to get the deck set up with a powerful early engine. This engine builds into a combo turn with Time Sieve, a two-mana artifact that can sacrifice five artifacts to grant an extra turn. Malcolm creates three artifacts per turn as long as I'm hitting three players, so all this required to keep taking turns with Time Sieve is a card like Academy Manufacturer, Renegade File Duplication, or Storm the Legion Negotiator that can close that gap with some extra artifacts per turn. Paired with a bunch of tutors and draw engines to find the various pieces and an eye-watering 13 counter spells to keep my plans safe with spare treasures, this deck can pretty reliably yield well-protected combo wins on turn five to six.

[2:10] So, this is a pretty strong deck, but it's also not one I've ended up playing with a whole lot. I love playing a highly interactive deck with lots of evasive creatures and coastal piracy effects, but this deck was that plus a fast combo win. So, it just doesn't feel right in most games. And fundamentally, this is why I was interested in creating a pivot for this deck to let my pirate guys see more games. The budget of this deck also might make it more clear why I thought 10 cards would be a fine number to swap out. The card quality here just isn't that high. There are no game-changers in this original deck and not a whole lot of what you might consider staples. If we look at the 13 counter spells in particular, there are a lot of weird ones you might not have heard of.

[2:51] Spell snare, lookout's dispersal, memory lapse. I also run every one-mana pirate in the game, including the vanilla heavy hitter grasping scoundrel and the Foglio classic that is cloud pirates. So, surely, I figured, this would be an easy power down. My deck is full of dog so I'll just cut the time sieve, some tutors, and some of the hyper low-cost interaction spells. In their place will come in a few pieces of creature removal, a few value engines, another land, and a few much goofier win cons. One of these win cons is Vorpal Sword, an equipment that can turn an evasive creature and 11 total mana into a dead opponent in short order. The other two are the commander storm cards skull storm and echo storm, which help mitigate the weakness of this deck getting its commanders shut down a lot.

[3:34] All three of these are pieces of tech that I tried out in the higher power version of the deck, but which didn't really make sense in terms of power level, and it's satisfying to be able to still let them live in a version of this deck. So, here was the deck, now split into two. I double sleeved the whole deck in Dragon Shield outer sleeves and then color coded the two 10-card swap packages with ordinary colored sleeves. If you want to attempt something similar with these outer sleeves, follow my affiliate link in the description and use code Salubrious at checkout. That aside, how did this new version of the deck feel? Was it indeed a mid-power deck? Well, I can't say the answer to that is no. It has won a pretty unremarkable number of games, and it usually threatens wins on a timeline that's pretty normal for a bracket three deck, usually around turn eight to nine.

[4:19] The overall plan for the deck is evasive creature beatdown with a lot of effects that generate value when combat damage is dealt. And the deck's more dedicated win cons dovetail naturally from this commander-centric light pirate beats However, there is still a distinctly weird character to this deck, and that comes from how precision-built it is to be strong early in the game, and how much protection it has for its game If it does indeed land turn one private, turn two Francisco, turn three Malcolm, or an equivalently strong roll out, it starts building up resources really fast. Three treasures a turn is pretty standard, and with one of the seven coastal piracy effects in this version of the deck, it will also often be drawing three cards a turn starting on turn four, with that number often scaling up quite a bit within a couple The deck does exactly what you would want a deck to do as it's gearing up for a crushing turn five or six win, because that's what the core of this deck was designed to do.

[5:12] But in this version of the deck, that crushing win never quite The deck just keeps drawing cards and making treasures and playing pirates until either it finds one of its finishers, wins through critical mass, or loses its footing and falls behind. This effect is amplified by the deck's interaction suite. The original deck had 13 counterspells and a pirate that can be sacrificed to protect something, as well as seven removal spells. This new version effectively trades three one-mana counterspells for a set of creature removal tools that cost three, four, and nine mana, respectively. In terms of this deck's ability to slow opponents, this feels pretty fine. 17 of the next 20 interactive tools are single-target in nature, and half of the deck's counter spells can't even hit This deck can draw a lot of cards and create a decent number of treasures, but it's just not capable of keeping the whole table suppressed for any significant length of time.

[6:04] However, I've had several games where this deck did seem to give off controlling pub stomper energy, and that fact fundamentally comes down to the protection suite here. This deck is carefully engineered to be as good at protecting its board as possible right from the first Malcolm trigger on turn three. In the original version, there were 14 protective tools, mostly counter spells, and here that number drops to 11, but in a deck with plentiful draw and filtering, that still ends up feeling plenty large. And this feature intersects with the deck's early power spike in some really interesting ways. If on turn four I have three pirates and creating three treasures per turn and I'm drawing three or more cards per turn, that generally makes me the early big bad of a bracket of a three-commander game.

[6:46] Then, when the removal inevitably starts flying, I get to effortlessly brush it aside with my plentiful treasure mana, even if I tapped out, and my draw engines will typically draw me into more counter spells and additional draw engines, which will in turn draw me into even more protection for my commanders. In the most extreme games, I've thrown out five or more counter spells to protect my board in the first six turns of the game, all while drawing piles upon piles of cards through a wide board of pirates and multiple coastal piracy effects. And just think about how this looks for my opponents. I'm the deck that's drawing eight cards per turn with my board of many permanents and countering removal spell after removal spell, seemingly executing an unstoppable game plan with cold precision.

[7:26] Every attempt to slow me down falls short, every point of resistance anticipated. I'd call this pub stomping, but it's more like pub stomp simulator because I'm not actually dealing a lot of damage or removing a lot of opposing threats. I'm just doing all of the other things that a pub stomping player would do. This is made all the worse because when this deck does lose its foothold, it's not usually because my opponent's got off a sick Alpha Strike spell or landed a perfectly timed board wipe. The first couple of those got countered. Instead, the deck falls behind with a whimper, taking damage and losing permanence here or there until it's forced to allow board wipe to resolve, or alternatively forced to offer up its board as blocks in the face of an overwhelming attack. It does succumb to pressure, but it feels more like collapsing under its own weight than getting put in its place by an opponent.

[8:13] In a dedicated playgroup, I think basically all of this deck's weirdness would melt away after playing against it a handful of times. If you know the next formula, early power spike, glut of single-target interaction, Commander storm cards to give a second wind after an eventual falloff, in that case none of this feels all that scary anymore. On the other hand, the people at the LGS seeing this for the first time, maybe even meeting me for the first time, they're interpreting opposing decks through the lens of decks they've already played against, and based on the idiocultures of the Magic the Gathering spaces they inhabit. And this feature can go the opposite way as well. Just as me drawing half a dozen cards per turn doesn't necessarily signal being unstoppably far ahead in an early game-centered deck like this, seeing somebody doing entirely mundane things in a late game-centered deck could easily be actually quite problematic.

[9:00] In my Sharuum control deck, I've noticed that if I'm not clearly behind on turn five, I'm actually ahead. If my life total is still in the 30s, my hand is decently stocked, and my board isn't utterly dwarfed by that of my opponents, I probably have at least a 40% chance of winning the game. And that just comes down to the deck being engineered to utterly dominate in the late game. I do try to communicate this power profile because I want a fair game. Hey folks, this is my Sharuum control deck. I sure hope I make it to the late game and get to do awesome stuff with Astral Slide. I likewise do a bit of that with the bracket three version of my Pirates deck, communicating that my two most powerful win cons are Vorpal Sword and Haunted One. But, with both of these decks, communication can only go so far, and that comes down to yet another challenge of Commander with randos, the With a play group, you can get to know all of your opponent's decks ins and outs and have an intuitive feel for when a deck is or isn't having a good game.

[9:56] But, with fresh opponents and less familiar decks, that can be a lot more challenging. Even if somebody tells you the rough profile of their deck, that's something you need to remember alongside all the other things happening, and their account might omit details or include built-in assumptions that you don't necessarily share. So, people go based on what they can see, life total, cards in hand, and especially what's on board. If I'm there with a wide board of pirates resolving 12 combat damage triggers per turn, it's easy for the person quietly ramping or tutoring or setting up synergy pieces to fall into the background. Likewise, that background person is me when I'm playing one of my greedier decks. Fundamentally, the biggest thing this comes down to is how telegraphed a deck is in what it's doing.

[10:38] A deck that's beating the I'm a problem drum starting on turn four with a flurry of activity on board is going to be much more noticed and more easily kept under control than a deck whose resources are more subtle. A deck that wins highly visibly on turn six could easily feel much more fair to a table of strangers than a deck who pulls a combo win out of nowhere on turn seven, even if the turn six deck is theoretically the stronger one. This all could sound like a problem of some sort, but to me it's ultimately more of an interesting observation. Yes, tables with less familiar players are going to be different than tables within a play group, and those distinctions are interesting to dive into, but in neither place is this pub stomping simulator pirates deck truly a problem.

[11:19] It feels like it swims against the social forces of playing Commander with strangers, but so does any deck that dares stray from the most conventional molds of Commander decks. And even if my spidey senses feel like they're picking up on some social friction when I'm hitting my strongest turns with this deck. Ultimately, I don't think most people are walking away from playing against this deck having their day made worse for it. They're just playing Commander just like anybody else. Thanks for watching and thanks to Architect for supporting the channel. Architect's maybe board categories give me an elegant way to do something weird like this with the deck. And if you want to take a look at this deck's list, you can find that down in the description. I'd also like to thank my supporters on YouTube and Patreon, some of whom are on screen now.

[12:01] If you want to support me in making this sort of content, as well as disappearing to Serbia occasionally, you can join my Patreon or sign up for a YouTube membership today.
