# Blight Curse is a Johnny Playground
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/8OzOVRYOFQc
date: 2026-01-20 | views: 80,435 | likes: 2,918 | comments: 194 | length: 13:39 | words: 3,034 | wpm: 222.5
chapters: 0:00 Channel update; 0:15 Precon overview; 0:43 Analyzing the commander; 2:04 Deck synergies; 3:30 Deck strengths; 5:24 Playtesting results; 6:22 Areas for improvement; 7:41 Alternative build paths; 8:55 Proposed cuts; 10:32 Proposed additions; 11:50 Final thoughts and outro

[0:00] Quick announcement up top. I'm now partnered with Dragon Shield. Follow my affiliate link in the description to get a discount on your online sleeve purchases. And keep an eye out in the upcoming weeks for an awesome custom sleeve design that me and my artist friend are cooking up at the moment. Now, on to the video. Lauren Ecliped is here and my patrons have decreed that I will be reviewing the minus oneus one counter precon, which is great because blight curse has been a lot of fun to dig into and is pretty phenomenal as far as pre-constructed commander decks go in my opinion. Not because it's a perfect deck, and we can work on that part a bit later, but for a lot of other reasons we'll be getting into. As usual, I'm going to start by talking about what the deck is trying to do. Then I'll be discussing what I like about it, and I'll finish up with some ways it can be improved.

[0:43] To start with, let's talk about this deck's main commander, Anti-U. She has a four mana 44 with ward blight 2, and whenever one or more minus one counters are put on a creature, draw a card if you control that creature. If you don't control it, its controller loses one life. The first thing I notice about this is a lack of limiting phrases in the text box. No one or more creatures and no once per turn. What this means is that this has the potential to be a pretty explosive value generator, easily drawing five or more cards per turn with the right setup present on a four mana 44 commander with a protective ability on it. That's pretty good. The downside here is the specificity. In total, there are an okay number of cards that put minus one counters on creatures, but it's not a particularly generous pool to work with when you consider that these cards function in a wide variety of different ways.

[1:31] Some put minus one counters on all creatures, rewarding wide boards with massive card advantage, whereas others gain minus one counters over time, pushing a slower, grindier play style. Plenty of others are one-time use. And a lot of cards that use minus one counters are primarily intended to put counters on opposing creatures and are balanced with that in mind. Do you put these counters on your own creatures instead for a bit of card advantage? All this to say, Anti-Oool is a powerful commander within her own synergy sphere, and the challenge in building her is going to be navigating a limited card pool to create a deck that plays to her strengths without ending up too disjointed. Looking at this deck's cards that place minus one counters, there are nine cards that specifically place minus one counters on your creatures, another nine that place minus one counters on any creature, two that place counters on each opposing creature, and four cards that place counters on all creatures.

[2:19] This array of different minus one counter cards is accompanied by a number of different payoff cards, which likewise operate in a variety of different ways. Eight of these trigger when creatures with minus one counters on them die, with most of these providing either card advantage or reanimating the creatures under your control. Another four cards plus the commander reward the active place encounters itself. And the synergies get much more granular from here, including amplifier cards like evolution sage, cards that modify the effect of minus one counters like Kolrath Knight, and weird roundabout synergies like Tree of Predition. Some of the setup and payoff combinations here are quite good, especially the ones involving cards that place minus one counters onto all creatures. And I expect that piecing together one of these zingy pairings is a big way this deck wants to get ahead.

[3:02] Naturally, this deck has a lot of tools to slow opposing creature-based game plans given its focus on minus one counters. And these creature shrinking options are joined by five cards that deal with artifacts, enchantments, or both. Rounding out the 99 of this deck are moderate counts of both draw and ramp, much of which involves minus one counters in some way. Through some powerful synergies, I expect this deck will try to get ahead in explosive fashion, slow opposing game plans with interaction, and then gradually wear down opponents with a mixture of creature attacks and incremental damage. So, to start with, what I like about this deck, this strikes me as quite a Johnny sort of precon. Because the deck was drawing from a limited card pool, the minus one counter synergies take a variety of different shapes, and the setups and payoffs within this deck piece together in some really cool and sometimes really powerful ways.

[3:47] Just thinking about anti-ool, the cards that place minus one counters on all creatures end up being a shamanic revelation for you and a rattos charm for your opponents. Both effects that can be very impactful depending on the state of the game. Any proliferate effects can amplify the effect of previous encounters, creating further value and damage at a brisk pace. These plays can also be doubled down on with an additional payoff card like Hapatra or Flourishing defenses, which can really put you in the driving seat of a game fast. This deck also has two different cards that reanimate creatures that die with minus one counters on them, both at three mana. And this means that it's possible to perform some powerful creature stealing maneuvers pretty early in the game. All this to say, this deck can do some powerful things, and the way it operates seems like it would make for an exciting play experience for any players who are especially interested in the way cards synergize.

[4:34] Just a minute ago, I talked about the two cards that reanimate opposing creatures that die with minus one counters on them. And one of these two is actually the alternate commander for this deck, the Reaper, King No More. And that's another thing I like about this deck. It actually feels like it has an alternate commander. The power level of the card is nice, basically being a sidegrade of Necroskitter that trades some raw power for a bit more utility. And the deck does have a fair amount of cards that place minus one counters on opposing creatures in it. So, this deck has a better relationship with its alt commander than most precons do in the sense that if you really like this card, you can run it as the commander and probably have an okay time with it. If you were doing that long-term, you'd want to tweak the deck a bit since anti-ool is pretty pivotal to the deck's card economy.

[5:15] But, the Reaper is already much closer to feeling good as a commander in this deck than most alternate commanders. And I'll talk a bit later about some possible ways to adapt this deck to him. As usual, I play tested this deck 20 times and kept track of how the first five turns went in an Excel doc. Overall, it felt decent. There weren't many games where the deck was really popping off super early like I have when I was testing the World Shaper precon last year, but most games the deck was doing some decent stuff and setting up for some cool plays later in the game. One neat thing is how varied the deck felt. There are so many different ways the various synergy elements can be pieced together, whether it be making a value engine, making a removal engine, having a single explosive turn, putting together a wide board, and so on. The commander also really helps with making the deck feel good for two reasons.

[5:58] For one, she offers an easy default minus one counter payoff, reducing the strain on the deck to find other payoffs. Secondly, the fact that she's a powerful draw engine allows somebody piloting the deck to see more of it, which is super useful for a deck whose cards are highly varied in how they work and what they accomplish. As a final note about what I like here, the manabase is fine enough for what this deck is doing. Upgrade it if you like, but I'll be leaving it alone in my tweaks. Getting into what I dislike about playing this deck, the big thing is dead cards. I had several play tests where I kept accumulating cards in hand that were entirely useless in my current game state. A lot of these cards are just a bit more specific in their play pattern or in the way they synergize with other cards being a little niche or hard to fully utilize with current tools.

[6:40] There is one frequently dead card that we should get out of the way first though. Liliana Death Wielder is an intro deck planaineswalker from Ammonet and it is truly god awful. It' be barely playable at four mana and in reality it's seven mana because it's an intro deck planaineswalker. I guess this was added to the deck to be an educational first cut for new players. Allah, Temple of the False God. But I don't really like that an iconic Planaineswalker like Liliana is reduced to serving that role here. Anyway, that's our first cut, and it should be a cut basically regardless of what you want to do with this deck. Another thing I dislike about this deck's current form is its creature count. This feels like a deck that wants to be running 35 to 40 creatures based on the number of cards that care about creatures, but instead it's running 27.

[7:23] This adds to the awkwardness when the deck keeps drawing into enchantments and sorceries and struggles to get much use out of something like soul snuffers or grave venerations that really want more creatures floating around in the ecosystem. So, these are the main things I want to be focused on in my upgrade. Reducing dead draws and upping the creature count. Before I get into my other nine cuts though, I really want to talk about alternative build paths because that's another reason I really like this precon as a product. There are a lot of little elements that could easily spark some inspiration and be expanded outward. A few proliferate cards help the deck amplify its minus one counters, and one way to modify this deck could be to lean harder into that mechanic and add other cards that can utilize it, such as Astral Chronicopia or Twitching Doll.

[8:04] There may not be a massive pool of minus one counter cards in the game, but there sure are a lot of other countering cards that can utilize some of the same payoffs and support. Another synergy area this deck gives a taste of is graveyard synergies. There are several cards that use graveyards as well as Archi fender that cares about discarding. These aren't very well supported now, but you could introduce some more eluding effects into the deck to help with these, and this extra filtering would also likely help the deck in general in pursuit of assembling engines. Finally, you could also adapt the deck to work better with the reaper in the command zone. There are several great cards that put minus one counters on opposing creatures that you could add if you don't mind paying a bit, such as persistent constrictor and spitting Dilophosaurus. And these paired with a bit more draw would likely make for a very different but still functional play style.

[8:48] This would also likely work well paired with a more graveyard heavy or proliferate heavy approach as well. You can do a bit of mixing and matching among these. For my upgrade, I'm choosing to go for a more streamlined approach that eliminates some potential dead weight and shores up some weak spots while increasing the creature count and improving tools for incremental minus one counters. Let's start with cuts. Archi of Ifir is getting cut because this deck has five other cards to discard and three of those are cycling lands. This was one of my first observations after plugging this deck into architect. I saw an archbe of IFneer. I dropped fo discard into the search box and boom, that's an easy cut unless you're feeling highly motivated to get more self-discard into this bad boy. I'm also cutting puka covenant and persist due to this deck's lack of graveyard enabling. The former requires your creatures dying and stuff in your graveyard to be gotten back, which is too niche a set of requirements for the current form of this deck.

[9:36] Persist will be useful a bit more often, but its ceiling is also much lower, so it doesn't excite me either. I am keeping the rest of the graveyard synergies around though as they have a lot more utility than these two. Speaking of persist puppeteer click. This card looks like it synergizes with this deck, but in practice you'll probably be struggling not to turn off its keyword more often than you'll be enjoying that extra anti-ool trigger. I'm also cutting Grim Poet. This one is a bit painful as it's a funky card with some neat possibilities here, but seven is such a large amount of mana to pay for something with no guarantee of it doing much. From here, the final four cuts are non-creature filler, which will be getting replaced with creatures and other options better suited to this deck. Harmonize and hoarders Greed are getting cut for alternate draw, Commander Sphere for an alternate mana rock, and Cathartic Py for a better removal spell.

[10:22] I will say the fact that I'm spending four of my 10 swaps targeting perfectly passable filler speaks well to this deck's card quality. There's just not many truly objectionable cards here. Now for the additions. I'm starting here with four lowcost creatures with blight abilities from the lurin eclipse to main set. Donhand dissident, gristle glutton, scuzzback scoundre, and shadow urchin. Adding these lowers our curve, ups our creature count, makes it easier to trigger the commander on demand. And as an added bonus, three of these four have fun alliterative names. You could also add the haste one if you wanted to, but I don't see this deck wanting haste on a single creature all that often. As replacement creaturebased draw, I'm adding generous patron, which can potentially net quite a solid amount of cards.

[11:03] To replace the mana rock and the creature removal we cut, I'm adding staff of completion and grim affliction, both of which can also proliferate. From here, I'm also a bit concerned about this deck's ability to maintain a healthy life total. It's on the grindier side. There was already some big life pay in the deck, and we just added some more big life pay in the form of staff of completion. So, the remaining additions will also perform a stabilizing role here. Obelisk Spider is great as a source of incremental damage, pairing with the commander to pepper down opponents at a steady pace and gaining a bit of life in the process. Pest Infestation boosts the deck's count of artifact and enjamment destruction while also gaining life and cementing the advantages this deck gains from having a large board. Finally, Elegy Acolyte gives a nice lifelinking body in addition to some draw, further smoothing this deck out in multiple regards.

[11:50] So, this is our finished version of the deck with expanded connective tissue and a creature count of 32, up from 27. I will say that in my tweaks here, I was very conservative with my cuts to cards that pressure opposing life totals. I don't know that Grave Titan, Lasting Tarfire, Tree of Predition, or Flourishing Defenses belong here longterm, but this is definitely one of the grindier precons I've seen, and I didn't want to handicap its ability to win by cutting perfectly passable pressure options just because they could be a bit better. I will also reiterate that money will go further in upgrading this deck than it would for a lot of precons. Because the card pool is so narrow, there are great cards that use minus one counters that don't really have budget replacements, and you'd probably want to eventually snag those if you're trying to upgrade this deck to a fully functional bracket 3 form.

[12:33] I will also say that narrow card pool itself is part of why I like this precon so much. It'd be easy for this to end up being a precon that feels a bit one-trick pony and really constrained in how you could go about improving it, but instead the opposite is true. This deck has a reasonable alternative commander, multiple possible modification paths presenting themselves, and it contains fewer obvious cuts than any other precon I've reviewed. Part of that comes down to the cards that are in the deck, but another big part comes down to the design of the commander. Anti-ool is a great enabler for minus one counters that encourages diving deep into the mechanic and playing around with synergy, and that's cool to see. The overall package works well, and if you're trying to get somebody into Commander who is a fan of other card games or rogike deck builders, this is going to be a deck with a sweet aesthetic and a lot of fun synergies for them to chew on.

[13:20] Thanks for watching, and thanks to my supporters for helping me do what I do here. If you want to join them in supporting me, you can click the join button or follow a link to my Patreon down in the description. You'll be getting access to a back catalog of bonus videos I made, and you also may get the chance to have your deck reviewed by me in one of my quarterly deck reviews. All right. Bye.
