# The Hybrid Mana Debacle, and how WotC caused it
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/EVlLh4FI82c
date: 2025-11-18 | views: 48,752 | likes: 2,585 | comments: 1,200 | length: 14:05 | words: 3,074 | wpm: 218.4

[0:00] The subject of hybrid mana has been pretty front and center recently in EDH discourse, and I honestly find it a bit tiresome as a topic. So, this video won't be about the merits of the proposed hybrid mana change. Not exactly, anyway. If you want a video that covers the meat of the issue, I'll be linking a Moldtown video on the subject that I quite liked. But now that the dust has settled a bit and the most sharpedged of hybrid gladiators have doled their role a bit, I want to talk about the conversation around it and what it means for us. I will only be discussing the hybrid mana change in so far as is necessary to make a case that the stakes here are low and that the reaction to the suggestion has been quite a notable and anomalous event. Because regardless of whether the change itself ends up happening, this clearly has been an event for the online EDH community.

[0:46] For any of you blissfully out of the loop, a couple weeks back, Gavin Ver of Wizards of the Coast made a set of announcements both in live stream form and in post form. A lot of it was pretty reasonable tweaks to the bracket system. those being some clarification of the language of different brackets and the moving of a handful of cards off the game changanger list. The more controversial part of the announcement was the potential future changes part where Gavin discussed the potential future banning of wristic study and the possible tweak of allowing hybrid mana symbols to be considered either of their colors for the sake of color identity. The conversation that has spawned forth about hybrid mana has kind of fascinated me in the past couple weeks, mainly because of how unexpectedly strong and unexpectedly plentiful the opinions have been, particularly opinions from the anti-hybrid mana side.

[1:30] There was an initial wave of anti-hybrid YouTube videos, and all videos about the subject have seen massive numbers of comments with a lot of people making a heated case for their side in this debate. This has been fascinating to me because the hybrid mana change seems like such a low stakes issue no matter what side you fall on. But the community response to the suggested change has felt like what it would be if Wizards of the Coast was suggesting literally abolishing color identity. So I want to dig a bit into why that is. What caused this? And to start, let's talk about literally abolishing color identity. Kind of. In an episode of the Magic Mirror podcast released in March, I gave a sort of devil's advocate case for why color identity should be abolished.

[2:11] And here are a couple key points from that. One, Magic the Gathering is a game based around mana and colors with card designs existing around the fact that colors are malleable and decks can venture between colors at the cost of deck space and deck consistency. There are a lot of designs that color identity renders clunky, awkward, and nonsensical, and this restricts players who wish to play them. Two, advocates of color identity will argue that limitations are good for decks, but color identity doesn't achieve this in a way that is consistent or fair. Somebody can play a fivecolor commander and avoid this restriction entirely. Whereas somebody who enjoys a specific monocolor commander that wants extra support from other colors gets unfairly limited. Commander is also a casual format about expression where players can always choose their own limitations if they want them.

[2:52] And the format imposing limitations on its own goes against this spirit a bit. I think these arguments are interesting and they make me curious what a world without color identity would look like. Despite this, in that podcast, I mentioned that I ultimately don't support the abolition of color identity at this point, preferring instead a set of changes that fix two cases where color identity feels particularly unintuitive to me. Those being cards whose identity is defined by indicators rather than symbols and hybrid mana. This is more or less still the position I hold at this point, 8 months later. Color identity should stay, but fixing up these weird side cases would be neat and probably good for the format in the long term. You can agree with that or not, and I'm not here to convince you about it either way because this isn't a video about hybrid mana.

[3:35] Given that, you may be wondering why I'm even bringing this up. And that's because the comments on that video basically agree with me. And that's interesting, right? In the context of hearing a devil's advocate argument against color identity and then being presented with these softer changes, people went, "Oh yeah, I like color identity, but those changes make sense." Am I some kind of god of rhetoric fooling innocent commander players into supporting a hybrid mana change by positioning it as the reasonable centrist position in the color identity debate? Maybe. But regardless of framing, I have to wonder what other elements contributed to this shift. The timing, the atmosphere within the EDH community, the party making the suggestion. I don't know the exact split, but my best guess is that it's probably a mix of these things.

[4:18] And I'm going to go through these now. Firstly, the timing. One version of this idea is that players dislike this change happening amidst hybrid mana being more heavily printed both in recent sets and in the upcoming set Lurin Eclipse. I don't think this is a major factor or at least I hope it isn't because it would be a very silly thing to be a major factor. Of course, Wizards of the Coast is going to suggest changes to the commander format. At times it feels most salient to do so based on what is being printed currently. In fact, it would be a lot weirder if they made the hybrid mana change during a period where very little hybrid mana was getting printed. Just so I don't leave it unsaid, this is a minor change and isn't going to meaningfully increase sales of Lurwin Eclipse, and Wizards of the Coast knows that. No, the bigger factor here is what has happened in the recent past.

[5:01] We just came out of a summer that saw a lot of dissatisfaction from the community with the Spider-Man set being both an aesthetically jarring Universes Beyond set and a poor quality set in its own right. This was paired with an announcement that next year we'll feature four different Standard Legal Universes Beyond sets out of a dizzying total of seven sets. I don't think I have the same emotional reaction to this as a lot of people, but it's certainly a bummer. I don't like the Spider-Man set, and I don't like being overwhelmed with endless standard legal universes beyond sets. All of this to say, there has been a lot to be frustrated about, and the online magic community has been hotboxing anger and resentment in all of its various spaces and subspaces and niches for the past several months. With the Spider-Man set being past us now, that anger has been looking for a new target to explode out at.

[5:44] And this month, that something ended up being a suggested hybrid mana change. This timing factor pairs with the who of the announcement. The fact that it was Wizards of the Coast making an announcement suggesting this change rather than a handsome and bigrained YouTuber talking about it in a podcast definitely had an effect because Wizards of the Coast is in a rough spot right now with community trust. I don't know who exactly to pin the blame on for every decision, but the collective decision-making power at Wizards of the Coast and its parent company Hasbro has been making a lot of pretty short-sighted choices, choices that they probably know will bother the player base. This is not to say that it's been all bad for EDH. The bracket system rollout has been going pretty smoothly, IMHO, and the general quality of products aimed at the Commander format has been pretty decent lately.

[6:27] But that's arguably part of the problem. The commander format has been identified as a cash cow. And a whole lot of decision about what gets printed, when it gets printed, and how it gets printed seem to be motivated by milking that cash cow. So, it's in this context that the suggestion of a decision that could be made about the commander format garers a massive wave of backlash getting lumped in with all the other decisions that have been made in recent years. So, is this a defense of the hybrid hating player base? On some level, it absolutely is in the sense that I think much of the current climate that produced this is directly due to decisions made by Watsi and or Hasbro. But are people justified in being this angry about the change? I would say no. A lot of the arguments against hybrid mana are reheated versions of the arguments defending color identity I've heard.

[7:11] Limitations are good. Homogenization is bad. Designer intent doesn't matter. Commander format architect intentions do matter. And so on as arguments in favor of color identity, these are certainly valid. though a mixed bag in terms of how persuasive I find each of them personally. Dredged up and put in this new context though, they look very strange because the stakes are so much lower. It's like rhetorical homeopathy. The angle you're arguing is very minor, almost inconsequential, and when you argue it with the passion of somebody whose mother just got insulted, it makes you look like a goofball. Like, take the question, does hybrid mana weaken color identity? My answer would be only a tiny bit at most, particularly if Wizards of the Coast is more careful with the hybrid color pie in the future, which I kind of assume they will be for reasons I'm throwing on screen, but will not pause to elaborate on, then that tiny bit needs to get sifted through the secondary question of how much does color identity erosion harm the commander format.

[8:02] Even if you think the erosion of color identity is pretty harmful to Commander, which is a reasonable thing to believe, you need to remember that you are not talking about the abolition of color identity. you are talking about a niche change to a very specific set of cards that already have valid arguments to exist within the current logic of color identity. I think a lot of players forget that and just pretend they're arguing against the abolishing of color identity and the result is that conversations end up feeling deeply strange. Or take the idea that an expansion of hybrid mana will allow for the printing of more widely available broken stuff in the future. The video from Tor over at MTG Goldfish is the best articulation of this argument I've seen. And there is a small part of me that worries what will happen when we get a Captain America's Wrath next year in Hybrid Red White that's broken and $120 and desired by every red or white deck.

[8:48] That could happen. But to contextualize how problematic that is, let's go through the steps of that argument. First of all, how problematic is it if broadly available powerful cards are printed? Well, it's something that has more or less always happened throughout Magic the Gathering's history, but I guess we can say that it's less ideal in the case of something like the one ring that is colorless and also has impacts on other formats. Step two of this point is how much does hybrid mana actually impact this? And the answer is that I don't see a whole lot of evidence that this change will lead to a surge in that. Wizards of the Coast already has colorless cards they can use to give a power card to any commander deck. So, the best tool for this is already available. In addition, if we look at the current hybrid mana cards affected by this change, none are staples in their two-color identities.

[9:33] The top two are coldeyed Selki and Sahili Sublime Artificer. Not exactly terrifying must plays. Will Wizards of the Coast start rubbing their hands together evily and sending hybrid stockup or hybrid beast whisperer to the printers the second the hybrid mana change happens? Maybe, but probably not. Once again, this is rhetorical homeopathy. The risks in this particular case just aren't that high, and players are using mental stand-ins to make their arguments rather than discussing the reality of the situation. To be clear, it's entirely fair for people to be against the hybrid mana change for either of these two reasons. The direction of the disagreement makes sense to me, but the scale of the disagreement looks rather strange, which is why I think other factors I laid out earlier are fueling the heat of this discussion rather than the change itself.

[10:15] I don't think this change is very high stakes for those two reasons I just laid out. And even as Wizards of the Coast has been making decisions I dislike, I also don't really buy most versions of slippery slope arguments that claim this is just the beginning. Two little waves over the top of the conceptual dam that is color identity. Farexian Mana isn't going to get this treatment because it's already been identified by both Wizards of the Coast and the community as a design outlier. Offcolor ability cards aren't going to get added because it'd be simply too large a change and would require other format changes to even remotely make sense. and full-fledged color identity abolition definitely isn't going to happen when even an abolition curious player like myself knows it's a bad idea. I also think it's important to remember that this change wasn't invented by Wizards of the Coast 2 seconds ago.

[10:57] This is something that players and designers alike have suggested and made cases for in the past, including myself several months ago. Not everything needs to be some nefarious mination by a corporation, and to pretend that a hybrid mana change is a brand new thing asked for by no players is just plainly dishonest. At the end of the day, I still understand why people tar the decision makers at Wizards of the Coast as greedy and corporate and nefarious and other such poratives. It seems like this year has really been an inflection point around Universes Beyond due to it suddenly making up a large portion of standard sets. The result is that even many players who were relatively neutral about it in previous years, such as myself, have started to sour on it pretty heavily, and the people who are already against it are finding themselves waiting into deeper and deeper levels of dissatisfaction.

[11:39] The current trajectory of the game is not a good one, and there is reason to be unhappy. That said, I also hope that we as a player base can get better at calibrating the temperature of our discussions. When we respond with disproportionate levels of anger and gloom to lower stakes suggestions, I worry that it weakens our ability to be taken seriously on the things that matter more, and it also distracts from those more important things. There are real decisions being made that have the potential to seriously impact the future trajectory of the game. And the impacts of the hybrid mana suggestion are microscopic compared to the addition of even a single extra standard legal universes beyond set. I also think it's better for the health of the community to not blow every announcement and update way out of proportion. When I see comments declaring every tiny thing as the death of the game, it makes me think of the vast array of spaces across the internet where people marinate in collective despair and pull themselves deeper and deeper into conspiracy and dumerism.

[12:29] It's not that much of a problem just yet, but that's just something I've been getting little whiffs of this year, and it's not healthy. Maybe it's because I've been involved in a wide range of game communities from flourishing to actively dying. But my general reaction to a game company doing stuff I dislike is to either distance myself from it or take some control into my own hands. The first is absolutely helpful sometimes, and I fully believe there are people discontentedly sticking around with magic who probably need to move on to other things. But I'm going to focus on the second. If what Wizards of the Coast is handing you doesn't satisfy your needs, build something for yourself. A format, a sub format, a cube, a community, a different game, or just a play group of people looking for the same sort of fun as you are.

[13:09] The best antidote to feeling disempowered and dissatisfied by the decisions of others is to take back control of your own enjoyment. That's undoubtedly harder than just accepting what a game company is actively handing you, but the potential benefits are well worth the effort. Thanks for watching, and thanks to Architect for supporting the channel. I've been working to finish my fall supporter deck review, and it makes life so much easier when I can port somebody's deck into Architect, do all the necessary categorization and analysis to get an idea of what's going on, and then have the inebite categories look nice enough for me to be happy just throwing them into a video as a visual. I've also been brewing a couple new decks lately, and if you want to check those out, a link to my decks is in the description. I also want to thank my patrons for their ongoing support of everything I do here.

[13:51] I had some stuff to say about the nature of design intent that didn't feel quite at home in this video. So, I threw those thoughts in their own separate video for supporters. If that's something you want to hear me talk about, you can become a YouTube member or a patron today.
