# How I Failed to Build an Aggro Deck for 3 Years
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/kR3C_OC5BzU
date: 2026-03-24 | views: 139,290 | likes: 4,330 | comments: 384 | length: 19:49 | words: 3,586 | wpm: 181.1
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 4:26 Early Liesa iterations; 8:16 The Bird; 11:56 Revenge of the Angel

[0:00] Any deck I find myself playing for a long enough period of time generally earns itself its own dedicated video, a deck tech. That happened 21 months after I built Shroom Slide, seven months after I built Glissa Incubators, four months after I built my Malcolm Time Sieve deck, one month after building my Radha deck, and also one month after putting together an updated version of my Maga deck. In part, this is for entirely ordinary YouTuber reasons. I need to figure out two things a month to talk about, and a deck I like to play makes for an easy thing make one of those two. However, this is also because my favorite decks tend to be evocative, meticulously crafted to scratch a very specific itch, and for this reason they also often serve as good lenses through which to analyze a specific play style or a specific motivation when building a deck.

[0:47] Relevant to this discussion is the fact that my decks tend to revolve around a specific vibe I find appealing, whether that be forcing the table into a cutthroat low-resource game, unstoppably accumulating resources for myself, or navigating a strategic minefield to a narrow control victory. Because my decks feature specific play patterns I find personally satisfying, I like to think they can be helpful documents of how I crafted an enjoyable experience for myself, and possible inspiration for how others can do the same. It's with all this in mind that we need to talk about the elephant in the room, my Liesa deck. I first built this deck in April 2023, 35 months ago, and it has stayed among my five to six core decks ever since.

[1:28] I've even talked about it in a handful of different videos because it has accomplished some interesting things and offered some intriguing lessons. What it hasn't done, though, is ever be quite satisfying enough to make a whole video about. It's never scratched the itch I wanted to scratch well enough to be worth talking about. This is kind of funny to me because I've known precisely what itch I wanted to scratch basically the whole time. I wanted to make my opponents think about their life total a lot. I said precisely this in a Discord message I sent to a friend in June of 2023, and I also laid out this thought process in a video about aggro in October of that year. An aggressive game plan can mean the ability to knock opponents out of the game early, but even before that happens, the first 20 to 30 damage dealt to an opponent already influences the way they play the game.

[2:15] It makes them play more conservatively, attack less confidently, and feel a lot less confident about the life paid tools that are such a common feature in Commander. And, relevantly here, a low life total especially does that if I can keep around a creature that drains opponents whenever they cast spells. So, I was already in a great starting position with my command zone being a command tax dodger who drains anybody who casts spells. So, how exactly did I manage to fail at adequately scratching this itch for multiple years? Well, it's been a complex road of confused intentions and muddy goals

[5:33] with multiple rounds of heavy reworks and This is where the command zone comes into play for this particular deck. My hate bears can whittle down life totals a bit and generally gum up the works of the game, and then Liesa is my follow-up that can really start to cut down life totals in this slowed environment. This theory largely worked out in reality. I had a suite of 16 hate bears alongside modest counts of protection, ramp, draw, and removal, as well as some extra tools to help Liesa in cutting down opposing life totals. Still, I found myself having some issues with that original deck. In retrospect, the biggest one is that it felt more stacks than it did However, at the time I was only distantly aware of this, and more focused on another undeniably present problem.

[6:17] The deck didn't have all that much draw, which just kind of made it boring to play. My opponents couldn't do much, but neither could I. So, in early 2024, I did a round of tweaks on the deck to get more value generation in there and generally to make it more interesting to play. And I added a lot of value generation, three more general purpose options and five cards that contain a particular mechanic I wanted to play around with, the initiative. The initiative is a mechanic that causes a player to travel through the Undercity, which triggers an effect in a room whenever a player takes the initiative, whenever they start their turn with the initiative, or whenever they take back the initiative from an opponent who stole it by attacking them. It's like monarch, but needlessly complicated for entirely aesthetic purposes.

[7:01] Anyway, this had some undeniable appeals. In a slow-paced game, any once-per-turn triggers naturally gain a bit of extra relevance. Also, my deck already benefited from running a small handful of defensive cards due to its grindy life total race-winning commander, and these defensive cards also help with keeping the initiative. Also, I didn't have an Undercity token, so I drew one on a full-sized piece of paper and brought miniatures to Commander games so the people could represent their positions on it. Who wouldn't love that? Well, me, and that was part of my issue with this version of the deck. A commander deck can easily be this pretty compact, self-contained thing, and here I'd introduced an extra mechanic that required me to use this full sheet of paper prop or else buy a replacement that's irritatingly small?

[7:45] It just felt like a kind of pointless extra hassle to need to deal with, particularly given that my deck only ran five initiative cards and didn't draw any of them in some games. The other part of my issue was that I'd cut a bunch of damaging cards in order to make the round of changes I'd made, and while those damaging cards weren't great, their absence pulled the deck even further away from the life total pressuring ideal I'd been striving for. I had a functional deck that I didn't mind playing, but the itch was still not being scratched. So, it was time for another change. One of my favorite cards in the deck was Bruna, the Demagogue. She is a three mana creature with the text, "Whenever a player attacks one of your opponents, if that opponent has more life than another of your opponents, that attacking player draws a card and you put two plus one plus one counters on a creature you control." It might not immediately be clear what that means, but basically drawing her instantly granted the deck a whole bunch of both value generation and damage in the form of plus one plus one counters, and also created a sort of political game for my opponents.

[8:42] In theory, she offered opponents card advantage, but trading a card for two plus one plus one counters on one of my creatures didn't usually feel too bad, and her benefits were much more consistent on my side of the table. After four or five games of drawing her and greatly enjoying what she did to the deck, I decided to rework the deck with her in the command zone. In theory, this swap made sense to me. Liesa is a damage-focused commander who operates through the use of a life tax, and Bruna is a damage-focused commander who operated through the use of plus one plus one counters. My theory about having a hate bear oriented 99 along with a commander who pushed a lot of damage still absolutely intact. The other appeal here was that hate bears are a type of card better suited to somewhat higher power games, and Bruna was a more powerful commander than Liesa, so that was an added bit of congruence.

[9:29] With this new bird in the zone, I was better equipped to handle the sorts of higher power Commander games that Thalia's played was itching for. So, how was that? Well, in a lot of ways I was correct, and the deck I ended up producing was undoubtedly a workable one that I could have some fun playing. It got going fast, Bruna's plus one plus one counters could turn my hate bears into terrifying beaters, and the card advantage options meant it rarely totally ran out of steam. Even better, with such a potent command zone, I could afford to run more interaction than ever before without sacrificing other things. So, I was what was the problem? Put simply, the nature of a Breena command zone is dramatically different from the nature of a Liesa command zone, and it's different in a way that totally destroyed the feel of the deck that I was going for.

[10:11] On some level, Liesa is an inevitability commander, an unstoppable life total tax that always represents a way to grind the game toward a single digit hit point slugfest. With her in the command zone, the 99 could focus on keeping opponents in check and putting in chip damage, knowing that every chunk of health my opponents lost was a spell they couldn't safely cast later in the game. By contrast, Breena is very much a tempo commander, as I laid out in my glass cannon commander's video last year. Like Liesa, she helps me deal a ton of damage to opponents, but the profile of that damage is front loaded and reliant on creatures sticking around on board. If I had a smooth first several turns, I might be swinging in with a few 7/7s or 8/8s or 9/9s on turn five.

[10:54] And if those creatures stuck around, there was a solid chance I'd be winning that game. Problem was, if some of my creatures got removed or if, God forbid, there was a board wipe played that I couldn't dodge, all of that damage momentum would slow to a halt. In that case, I'd still have some card advantage from Breena drawing me an extra one to two cards per turn, but it would take some time for me to redevelop a board that could once again threaten opponents. And whether I could pull that off successfully might come down to a variety of different factors. To be clear, what I'm describing is a very normal type of commander deck. If your deck works like this, that's fine, and I did enjoy some things about playing it. It even makes sense as an aggro deck. This deck came out of the gate swinging and routinely knocked 50 points of life off of its opponents within the first six turns of the game, even in games it eventually lost control of.

[11:41] The problem was, I wasn't just looking for an aggro deck. I was looking for a sort of inevitability aggro experience, where opponents would spend time dealing with the consequences of a painfully low life total. And this deck was decidedly not that. So, how did I solve my aggro problem? How did I create a deck that scratches this itch of wanting opponents to spend a lot of time looking at their life Well, step one was going back to Liesa. Part of me was a little hesitant to do this for purely power reasons, because the Breena deck had been sort of bracket four curious, and Liesa is a pretty firmly mid power sort of commander. A small part of me wishes she drain opponents for three per spell, but alas, my girl Liesa just doesn't quite have that kind of sauce.

[12:25] However, this fact also gives some opportunities, the biggest one of which I'll get to in a bit. To start with though, let's talk about how I fixed some of the issues from the previous Liesa decks. A big piece of this was the beatdown suite. An issue with the previous iterations of the deck was that the 99 didn't actually do a good job of getting life totals low enough for Liesa to matter. In the case of the original deck, that was a result of running a bunch of mediocre damage tools such as Blood Artist effects, and in the initiative version, that was just not really running very many damage tools in general, unless you count making target opponent lose five life once every five turns. So, here, assisted by a more lax budget than I was using in the past, I picked out a bunch of new damage options. Ank of Mishra, Wound Reflection, Suture Priest, and iconic political aggro tool Hunted Horror.

[13:10] This card is so much fun, and if you have an opponent who's receptive to the idea of smacking Frederick over there who's playing a gross value pile, it's effectively 13/13 in stats for two In terms of value, I dialed into the small creature beats realm and grabbed Enduring Innocence, Assemble the Players, and Elegy Acolyte. This deck is running more draw oriented cards than the original, and while it's running significantly less value generation in total than the initiative version of the deck, much of the draw here is quite dense and impactful. Barrow Ghoulf was a final inclusion here, it's just an all around solid beat stick with a bunch of value attached. The biggest area I tweaked this deck though was dead simple. I cut a lot of hate bears.

[13:50] This was kind of painful because I really like having hate bears in my deck. It feels good to have a way to slow opposing game plans, to build around the restrictions of those tools so I'm breaking parity, and to be able to keep a high power table in check with something like a rule of law effect. And to be clear, I'm still running some, some taxes, some enter tap effects, and even Mindcensor, but the real game plan smashers like Hushbringer and Archon of Emeria got left behind. One reason for this I alluded to earlier. These cards feel most appropriate and most needed in higher bracket games, and Liesa isn't a commander that really belongs at those tables. The other reason for this choice was that stacks in general, and rule of law effects in particular, have this weird clash with Liesa because they cause opponents to cast fewer spells, but Liesa wants opponents to be casting more spells, or at least wants the fact that spells cost two life to feel relevant.

[14:42] It almost felt like doing her a little dirty, as well as undermining the goal of the deck. Like, think about it. If I have an opponent at a lowish life total, Liesa in play, and also a Phyrexian Censor in play, is Liesa reducing the number of spells my opponent wants to play? The answer is, who knows? They're not running a whole ass Phyrexian deck, they can only play one spell per turn anyway. In a way, this is similar to some lessons I've stumbled into with my other decks. When I'm making a deck to celebrate Astral Slide based value engines, I don't want to run more generic sources of draw that might step on the toes of what I'm celebrating. When I'm making a deck to bask in the glory of having 20 lands in play, I don't want to run a bunch of high quality finishers that will end the game as soon as I'm at 12 or 13.

[15:24] The same goes here. This is a deck intended to celebrate Liesa in specific and group slug aggro in general, and though a bit of stacks can be nice to manage the pace of a game, it's a powerful tool whose ability to warp the play style of a deck needs to be respected. Still, I find it hard to fault my past impulses too much. Aggro remains arguably the hardest archetype to build in commander, particularly a sort of grindy resilient aggro that poses a continuing threat to any greedy opponents. For that reason, this deck probably isn't ever going to enter the same sort of finished state that I'm willing to mentally categorize some of my other decks as being in. That said, after focusing in harder on what makes this deck satisfying, the current version feels much better than either previous iteration of Liesa.

[16:07] The deck's average mana value has gone up over time, and yet the current version feels like it's packing more quality two mana plays than previous The reason why this is becomes clear when I filter each deck by mana value in Archidekt and then look at what's actually there. Whereas the older versions had a lot of kind of filler two mana cards like Blood Artist effects and ketchup ramp, the current version's two drops are almost entirely value engines and actually decent beatdown tools. Another way I honed my intentions here was being willing to accept a firmly bracket three status and adapt my play style to be more appropriate to that. The deck still punches above its weight class against decks that lean in on a combo or storm sort of direction, but it's no longer the lumbering pile of stacks that it was before, and that lets it feel appropriate in a much wider range of contexts.

[16:52] So, broadly, this current version of the deck feels like a success in figuring out what I wanted from it above all else. And the funny thing is, I think the year with Breena in the command zone was a really important part of that. There are a lot of cards out there with a powerful iconic play style, and there's a reason people gravitate toward them. They feel good to draw, they feel good to play, and you could even put one in the command zone if you wanted to. If that specific thing is something you want every single game rather than just occasionally, that might absolutely be the right call. Even if it's not meant to be long term, as it wasn't in this case, playing with more extreme command zone choices can be a great exercise in figuring out what you do or don't enjoy about your deck, and it's absolutely worth a try if you have a deck you're not happy with.

[17:33] Thanks for watching. You can catch me this weekend at LDX P Tacoma, where I'll be along with my podcast co-hosts 3-3 Elk and the Tricket Mage. I'll be there with my Dragon Shield Sleeve to decks, and if you want to be enjoying the same excellent durability and wide range of design options, you can follow my affiliate link down in the description and score yourself some with a little discount. If you want to support what I do here in another way, you can become a YouTube member or join my Patreon, and you'll receive access to a back catalog of bonus videos along with the new one I'm putting out around the same time as this video drops. That one will feature me doing a deep dive into the first two Liesa lists, and a preview for that video will start right now. Uh, another thing I note is the value, and this is actually interesting because this deck's value suite, in terms of raw numbers, isn't that bad.

[18:19] Has 12 cards in it. My current Liesa list has 13. So, in theory, not that wildly different, but the quality of what's here and the density of this value suite is very different. Some of this is not even like draw in a sort of conventional sense. We have like Lurrus. Uh, Lurrus lets you cast mana value two or less cards from your graveyard. That's okay in this deck, but I think it's kind of definitely weaker than some things. I know I am running the the two mana future sight for small creatures in my current version. I think that feels a lot better than Lurrus in this sort of list, where you're just kind of running a whole bunch of small creatures. Probably better to be able to grab them from the top of library than it is to be able to grab them from graveyard in most cases.

[19:03] I'm not running a whole lot of like looping style creatures. I'm not running that sort of thing. It's it's kind of just a lot of guys who are intended to stick on the board for a little while. Sun Titan is also another recursion option here. six mana, I think just ended up being kind of a lot for this effect. Like, I want a card to do more than Sun Titan does in this deck. And some of these others are just like kind of generic ones I don't really care for anymore. Uh, Tishana's Welcome, I found that there are just better options out there than this. Especially, I think the the one in Dusk Legion that turns into uh, it starts as a creature, turns into into an enchantment. Phyrexian Arena is another one that I've kind of eh, it's it's fine.

[19:44] I didn't feel bad about having it. I feel probably better about having something better.
