# The 5 Most Common Deckbuilding Mistakes, and How to Avoid Them
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/Oh_a34vdtIA
date: 2025-12-16 | views: 297,348 | likes: 8,627 | comments: 457 | length: 17:38 | words: 3,761 | wpm: 213.4
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 0:46 Unfocused goals; 3:31 Vulnerable to hate; 6:18 Not proactive enough; 10:28 Not reactive enough; 13:51 Dead cards

[0:00] I have been doing reviews of my supporters decks for almost 2 years now. And over that time, I've noticed some patterns, some common stumbling blocks that a lot of players tend to hit. This isn't just the new players, either. I'm sampling here from players who watch my videos and like them enough to give me money about it. And that's to say nothing of the deck building mistakes I occasionally catch myself making and need to correct. Having just finished up a deck review, which you can check out on my second channel if you'd like, I did the sort of normal thing you might expect of me. I went back through every single deck I've ever reviewed, looked at what feedback I gave, and tallied up the number of each general family of critique I gave. And this video is that the most common deck building mistakes I see and a brief discussion of how to avoid each of them.

[0:46] Number five, your deck is unfocused on the macro level or in terms of its goals. This is a piece of feedback I've given seven times in my reviews. And of these five mistakes, this is the one I see most commonly with newer players. There are lots of decks that are built around some central synergy pillar like life gain or plus1 plus1 counters or self-discard. And this is a great place to start when you're building an EDH deck. Where the issues start to show up is when a player builds a deck centered around a specific element but doesn't have any sense of direction for the rest of their deck. What this usually means in practice is that somebody has a whole bunch of different payoffs for a particular mechanic, but with these payoffs shooting off in a variety of different directions with no rhyme or reason.

[1:27] If I'm building a landfall deck and looking for payoffs, I can add cards that make tokens, cards that buff my creatures, cards to gain me life, cards to damage opponents, cards that generate value, cards that hinder opposing creatures, and a whole bunch of other tasks that are much more specific. It is totally possible that I grab a couple clusters of cards that end up working well together. Maybe I pull together token producing landfall cards along with landfall cards that buff wide boards plus a couple options for ramp value and combat amplification sprinkled on top. However, it's easy to imagine this going wrong as well. Maybe I'm starting from the place of tokens and buffs, but then I add one or two damaging cards like tunneling geoped. Suddenly, the clarity of my game plan has been diluted a little with incremental damage being played alongside the big dramatic swings of the token beatdown plan and taking up a slot that could have helped that token plan more.

[2:16] Now, let's say I add a card like grazing glade heart. Well, life gain can be nice for stabilizing a deck that is slow or light on creatures, and it can also be good paired with life gain payoffs, but neither of these things are going to be true about our landfall beatdown deck. and adding life gain just adds fluff that doesn't serve our deck's goals. Ultimately, this problem will typically be ironed out in the process of tuning a deck and figuring out exactly where it wants to be going. A necessary lesson here is in restraint, knowing when to exclude a card, even when it theoretically has a bit of synergy with what you're building. Part of why this mistake is especially common among newer players, is because it often takes a bit of card knowledge to know what might serve a deck's interests more than the 18th landfall card or the 13th life gain payoff.

[2:58] If you're cruising through Skyfall with a certain search term related to your synergy family, it's easy to just add endlessly until your deck space has filled up. And this will create a deck that does something. The trick is learning to crank up the specificity. Turning a soup of generic payoffs into a deck that knows what it is and where it is going. If this sounds like something you struggle with, I made two videos last year that both heavily cover this topic. One about building decks that win and the other covering decks oriented around a creature type. Those are in the description if you want to check them out a bit later, but for now, let's move on to number four. Your deck is vulnerable to opposing hate. I've said this about eight decks in my reviews, and it's a classic one.

[3:39] Some decks are a bit of a glass cannon. They have the potential to be very powerful, but can easily get kneecapped and do nothing. There are other decks that simply have vulnerable game plans in some way or other due to having an expensive commander or a game plan that invests heavily into a particular resource. Regardless of the reason, decks whose game plans are fragile in some way are common. And it's good to mitigate a bit of that fragility if doing so doesn't have too much of an opportunity cost. The most popular suggestion here is protection. But this is where I need to get into a bit of an awkward confession. I don't like protection spells very much. I have a Voltron deck that uses a bunch of protection cards to decent effect, but I've had multiple other protection heavy decks that just felt kind of bad to play.

[4:20] Protection feels great to have when I'm ahead, but when I'm behind, they're the most useless pieces of garbage clogging up my hand that I can possibly imagine. I will happily accept that this is a me problem, but this is also my YouTube video, so I'm going to tell you a bunch of ways to increase a deck's durability without adding purpose-made protection spells. Firstly, some protection spells are useful outside of protecting a key creature from removal. My favorite category of which is counter spells. There are certainly other examples of this, though. Flicker spells like ghost way can get a bunch of extra value off of ETB creatures and protection from spells are a form of evasion. There's also the boot equipments that grant both a protective keyword and haste. Speaking of which, haste.

[5:01] The worst feeling is having a creature eat dirt before it could do anything at all. But if you have a creature you want to attack with or activate a tap ability of, giving it haste through some means or other fully prevents this. Though you might be thinking, "But Alex, I'm a blue player. I can't run Anger or Arena of Glory. You're right about that. But what you can run is lay line of anticipation or Alchemist's Refuge. Saving your next pivotal setup plays for an opposing endstep rather than trotting them out on your main phase dramatically increases the odds that you'll actually get to use them and effectively increases the amount of mana you get to spend uninterrupted by opposing main phases. This brings me to my final suggestion, ramp. If you have cards that like to be played together, but which costs a lot of mana, you might be tempted to play one and have it sit around naked out in the cold for a whole turn cycle before finally playing a card that synergizes with it.

[5:50] By simply having more mana, you can avoid this issue. And ramp also works for bouncing back after a setback. As long as you have cards in hand. If you like this video so far, you should smash that like button, eviscerate that subscribe button, and obliterate your current state of not giving me a few dollars by signing up for my Patreon or a YouTube membership. I made a supporter only companion piece to this video that covers some deck building mistakes I've made this year and a preview for that will be at the end of this video. With that said, let's get to number three. Your deck isn't proactive enough. I've had this critique for 10 decks and it's sort of related to the unfocused goals issues in the sense that both are concerned with a deck's ability to win games.

[6:31] But the types of deck I have this to say about are quite different from those decks. When I say a deck isn't proactive enough, I'm typically talking about a deck that is already doing a decent job of managing opposing decks in some way or other. Maybe it's a political or pillow for deck with tools to keep opposing creatures away. Or maybe it's a control deck with lots of removal and counter spells. Regardless, the issue here is usually that a deck is spending too much space on this task and fails to create its own game plan. The most common place we see this is with go decks, which if I'm being honest, is a pair of two words that don't really belong together. If you're adding a go card to your deck, its effectiveness will be inversely proportional to the number of good cards already in your deck.

[7:12] The first two or three go cards might feel great for directing the heat of opposing creatures, and maybe even the fifth or sixth one as well, depending on what you find yourself playing against. Much past that, though, and you're going to find yourself drawing multiple of them, and maybe there isn't a great thing to go in a given moment. Sometimes opponents will have a lot of great things to code, but other times there might only be a single key attacker with everything else being an anemic little goober. And in that case, you've been handed the decision of either using a go card sub-optimally or having it sit in hand doing nothing at all. With goat in particular, I think part of the issue is that players treat go as a plan for winning in and of itself when it's really not a mechanic that can be relied upon to do that. It can be a plan for softening opponents a bit, but I prefer to play it safe and treat go cards as defensive tools for the early to midame that might occasionally come with a bit of damage and disruption as a side benefit.

[8:04] It's easy to overload on something like go if you consider it your plan. But pretend cards are fogs instead and suddenly your deck with 12 fogs in it is looking a little suspect. This ties in with how a deck is categorized. If you give an effect like go its own category in a deck building website like architect, you're giving your brain the opportunity to draw up huristics every time you look at your deck. Even if your conscious mind knows the limitations of a mechanic like go, you might have lingering subconscious bias that causes you to feel overly comfortable in the state of your deck looking at a category of seven code cards. And this can be prevented by simply categorizing cards based on what role they're playing instead. In most decks, I probably choose defense as the primary task that God accomplishes.

[8:48] But in my Malfagore deck, I have Carter in removal as a primary category since a big goal of removal in that deck is to clear out blockers and buy me time between Malfphagore ETBs. And that's what Carter does. Notably though, I also have Carter packaged in with my damaging effects in a secondary category since he can help with life total pressure as a side benefit. Not the main benefit, but a side benefit. This logic also applies to a lesser extent with any other type of deck that uses opposing tools to win. Some theft commanders give players a gentle nudge toward proactivity. Both Admiral Beckett Brass and Ganty Kenny Inquisitor require connecting with opposing life totals to start thieving in the first place. So, your commander is already pushing you to have some sort of plan on your own for winning.

[9:32] In other cases though, players will make theft the main plan and then they'll simply assume that windcons will arrive naturally. Surely my ganty will find me a tasty card to destroy my opponents with. And maybe that will happen, but maybe it won't as well. Quite a lot of ways to win the game are tied into synergy packages in some form or other. And whereas the tokens player has a whole deck full of token generation for their overrun effects to pump up, you're over there putting up some meager imitation of their plan with the small handful of creatures you've managed to scrge together. For this reason, I like to play it safe with these as well. There's a decent chance a theft card will find you some removal or some ramp, maybe even some draw as long as it's not tied in deeply with a synergy package.

[10:14] All three of these things are important, and having a thing that probably gives you access to some of them can be quite helpful, but it's simply not a reliable plan for closing out a game, and internalizing that fact will cause you to win more games. Number two, your deck isn't reactive enough. I've mentioned this for 13 decks, and this ties in closely with the last problem. While some decks overload on defensive or control tools and fail to spend adequate deck space on their own plan, other decks do the opposite, underinvesting in ways to deal with opposing game plans. A natural question might be, what does underinvesting in interaction look like? And you might be expecting me to give some magic number, possibly a large magic number.

[10:58] And you wouldn't be that unreasonable to assume such a thing. Most of my decks feature 20 or more pieces of interaction. But I've actually reviewed a number of decks that feature eight or seven or even five pieces of interaction and where I'm okay with that number. What these decks have in common is that they are tight on space and ruthlessly proactive. They have some bold plan that requires a lot of deck coordination to set up right and their deck is all about making that plan a problem for their opponents to deal with. And that is a valid strategy. If you have a Voltron adjacent deck that can deliver a lot of beatd down in short order, you might be able to snuff out a potential problem player before they get a bunch of value out of something you might want to remove. If you have a deck that creates a lot of life total pressure for the table, you might be able to get opponents to an uncomfortably low life total before they can develop super far, which makes greedy value plays a much more challenging task for them to pull off.

[11:49] And obviously, if you have a deck that can outright win relatively quickly, there's all sorts of lategame nonsense you won't need to remove. With this in mind, the reason why I so frequently recommend more interaction to people is because their decks don't do any of what I just mentioned. If you've built a standard mid-rangey thing that wins on a very average timeline, you need some ways to slow down opposing plans or your chances of winning go down substantially. Variance exists, and sometimes opponents will just happen to put together their game plan better than you can. If that game plan can be slowed down, you're still in it. But without interaction, you're out of things. Sure, there might be times when you're the one whom the variants gods favor, but there's a good chance your opponents will be ready for that with interaction of their own.

[12:31] Notably, this trend of slower decks needing more removal continues all the way down and also has implications for what type of interaction works best. If you're a faster mid-range deck, it might feel good to run mostly mana efficient one for one classics like Path to Exile, Nature's Claim, and Bitter Triumph since you might just need to cut down one or two opposing threats to stay in the driving seat of the game. On the other hand, if you're playing a deck that's on the slower end, there's a good chance your game plan will need to be grindier and care much more about card efficiency. On the most generic end, this could just be cards that remove more stuff for more mana, but you can also tie your interaction into your deck's synergy packages for increased efficiency. In my shroom deck, I run mostly ETB based interaction with no conventional instant or sorcery removal, and this can allow the deck to outvalue all three opponents at the same time once it gets fully chugging with its flicker engine.

[13:22] In this deck's case, this lack of one for one interaction feels okay since the slides can step in as emergency creature removal in a pinch. But for some decks, that reduction in contingency removal could be a counterbalancing force to improved card forcard value. The big picture here is that you shouldn't think about your deck's interaction as some kind of grim obligation you need to fulfill so a YouTuber won't be disappointed in you. Figure out what your interaction suite is trying to accomplish for your deck and treat it as a part of your deck that's in a state of collaboration with your proactive game plan. Number one, your deck is unfocused on the micro level. Or in other words, you have dead cards. I have said this about 21 different decks and indeed running cards that will frequently feel dead in hand is a very common problem for EDH players.

[14:06] That said, there are layers to this one. The most pure version of this relates to synergies that are relatively thin. So, if you put a small life gain theme or counters theme or tokens theme into a deck, some payoff cards for those things are going to feel kind of useless unless they're good on their own or tie into other parts of the deck. Sometimes this might not even be intentional. God Pharaoh's Gift is a fun engine card for decks that like high-cost artifacts, but without some combination of a high creature count and ways to get cards into the graveyard, the card's stronger games likely won't make up for its weaker games where it struggles to find good exile targets. Another way dead cards can come up is when we consider amplifier cards and other cards whose effect is based on how well a player is currently doing.

[14:48] To be clear, these aren't strictly bad, and they perform an important purpose. They allow a deck to turn a corner, a tool that leverages a state of moderate power to create a state of overwhelming power. A token doubler might turn a modest token plan into one that's a genuine threat. A power matters card like Traverse the Outlands can turn a single large creature into a bunch of extra value. And a damage amplifier like Fiery Emancipation can turn a mildly threatening ping plan into an outright win in short order. The important thing here is that these require something else to already be happening and have no effect in any situation where that's not the case. The key thing to look for to figure out whether these cards will be vital game pieces or dead weight is to see how consistently the thing you're amplifying will be present and sticking around.

[15:33] If it's a very common andor resilient part of your game plan, that's great. Pack some of these in. But if it's a less common or more fragile part of your game plan, you'll want to show a bit of restraint. lower numbers of the most pure amplifiers and more in the way of flexible cards that help get a game plan going in the first place. The exact numbers will still vary persontoerson depending on your preferred level of swinginess and the amount you're okay with stallouts, but this general principle applies regardless. If you want to hear more about dead cards, I made a whole video about them earlier this year, which will be linked in the description. And for that exact reason, I'm going to stop talking about them now, which concludes this list. But if you want to hear about some deck pulling mistakes I've made this year, you can sign up for my Patreon or a YouTube membership, and a preview of that bonus video begins right now.

[16:20] This has been a fun deck to play around with a bit. But the initial version of it had one big flaw. It did not run any filtering that dumps cards into the graveyard, instead just including a high count of dragons. Scanos also checks power on dragons in graveyard, but my instinct was that focusing too hard on that was a trap. Like I figured I could play some mill and put a focus on getting dragons into the graveyard, but the hearty outlander background still requires another creature in play to do anything. So it'd be best to just focus on getting a dragon in play. And anyway, I should have the mana available to play a dragon on a turn I'm swinging with Scanos. And if I also have one of my five Vidian Joiner creatures in play, I immediately get a burst of mana to make up for that investment.

[17:02] There were multiple issues with this logic. The first was in assuming that a big dragon and Scanos would swing at the same time. Something tricky to guarantee with only two haste enablers. Scanos is scary and my seven drop dragons are scary. And while I do sometimes get to swing for 29 with my commander and a canopy gargantuan, much more commonly I was swinging with Scanos plus a smaller dragon and wanting to hold up mana for protection or some post-combat power shenanigans. In those cases, whether or not one of my big dragons was in the graveyard could mean anywhere from 6 to 14 damage across those two creatures and would also
