# The Strange Ethical Case for Playing Boring Decks
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/PFdpbJPArU4
date: 2024-07-18 | views: 189,411 | likes: 5,806 | comments: 683 | length: 20:36 | words: 4,138 | wpm: 202.1
chapters: 0:00 introduction; 1:33 context on EDH; 3:28 EDH's information overload; 4:27 card diversity; 7:32 deck diversity; 11:07 the playgroup experience; 13:22 work-arounds for information overload; 17:10 the interaction connection; 18:40 conclusion

[0:00] I am a hipster. I am an honest-to-god, dyed-in-the-wool EDH hipster. I like to play weird, unusual decks that do weird, unusual things with weird, unusual cards. The idea that I might be playing a deck that does something nobody has done before is extremely cool to me. And that specific task is something that is far more possible to do in EDH than in just about any other format. The format has a card selection that's almost as wide as Vintage is. It has thousands of different options for commanders. And the fact that it doesn't have a single set power level means that no deck is fully squeezed out as long as you're willing to shop around for an appropriate table to play at. The level of freedom that the format offers to deck builders can be genuinely overwhelming for the people who aren't used to that.

[0:43] But for the most dedicated brewers of the world, it's basically one big playground of possibilities. Do you have a funky vision you want to realize? EDH can absolutely accommodate I do firmly believe all that about the format, and I have long had the goal of pushing the envelope on how weird and niche casual EDH can get. But for the past couple months, I've also had a nagging thought. Is the version of the EDH format I'm describing actually a good one? One that leads the most people to have the most Is having a weird-off with the table where everybody tries to do the most performatively unusual things actually a good way to play Magic? Might it even be more ethical, better to one's fellow Magic players, to play a deck that's simpler or does something more common?

[1:27] So, in this video, I'm going to explore that nagging doubt. But first, I need to lay out a bit of The period between 2002 and 2011 saw the EDH format grow from a scarcely known novelty to a format Wizards of the Coast was willing to print cards specifically for. A big step in this process was its adoption as a casual pick-up format among Pro Tour judges, with the late Sheldon Menery effectively serving as the format's guide and foremost advocate during this period and beyond. The appeal here is clear. It was a more casual way of playing that could manifest at events once the more cutthroat 1v1 matches of the day had been concluded. Even after the first precons were released, this culture of pickup games remained strong across the format.

[2:10] Anecdotally, I played a decent amount of Commander during downtime at local limited and standard events in 2014 and 2015, and it just made sense as a format to play when people were looking for a bit of variety. In his article for Polygon a few years back, Charlie Hall highlighted some of the appeals. If a handful of people want to play a game of Magic, rather than figuring out an appropriate format to play or double-checking that a couple casual decks are built under similar ethos, Commander offers an elegant one-size-fits-all solution with a broad card pool and a slim ban list. Though EDH has since become its own main event in most cases, played among friend groups and in dedicated leagues at local game stores, there are visible indications of the lingering influence of pickup games in the direction Wizards of the Coast has taken with the products they market to Commander players.

[2:55] While they used to sell a product called Deck Builder's Toolkit as a way for casual players to build their first deck on their own time, these got phased out a few years ago to be replaced with greater Arena support and more products for Commander, the now de facto casual format of paper magic. Relevant to my point here, most of these products are preconstructed Commander decks, which are ready to play out of the box. If you're sitting in a game store and a few other people start to play Commander, you can walk up to the counter to buy a precon and some sleeves, and you'll be good to go in a few minutes, assuming you have a couple helpful compatriots to help you sleeve Now, at this point you may be saying, "But Alex, how is this relevant?" Well, let's take a minute to think about the pickup EDH experience, where you sit down to a table and start up a casual EDH game with three unfamiliar opponents who are playing largely unfamiliar Put simply, it can be a little overwhelming sometimes, and I'm speaking purely from an information standpoint.

[3:48] With the format being slow and four-player, the board gets gradually clogged with increasing numbers of assorted permanence of various stripes, with the purpose of any single one being potentially unclear. And this is EDH in the year of our Lord 2024. So, all of these have a lot of text, too much text, some might argue. With thousands of Commander options, there's a good chance of at least one of these at the table being one you haven't played against. Knowledge of how your opponents plan to win will likely be incomplete at best, and next to nonexistent at worst if nobody bothered to pose that question to the table. Pick up EDH can be an absolute information overload, and this broader problem can be broken down into two separate subproblems, card diversity and gameplay diversity. As far as card diversity goes, the EDH format has tens of thousands of cards available to it, and a much less restrictive ban list than Legacy, which otherwise shares a similar card pool.

[4:37] Not only this, but since the format is 100 card singleton, seeing any singular card in a deck gives far fewer implications for what the rest of the deck might contain compared to other formats, and also results in far more unique cards in each deck. Multiply this by three to account for the multiplayer aspect of the format, and there will be a lot of cards to keep track of just as a baseline. Traditionally, veterans of a given format will be better able to keep up with different things opponents are playing due to wider card knowledge, but with Wizards of the Coast increasing the number of brand new cards they print into the Commander format from the high hundreds per year to multiple thousand per year, keeping up even as an experienced EDH player can be difficult. My friend Hans built a funky new deck recently, and even as somebody who basically thinks about EDH as a profession, there were a surprising number of cards from this deck that I had no familiarity with whatsoever.

[5:28] In a game with several decks containing unfamiliar cards, just processing these new pieces of cardboard and figuring out how to play against them in real time can eat up precious mental energy that could otherwise go toward planning future turns, politicking, and performing threat analysis on other cards. And that's with a group of experienced players. The new player in EDH is a whole different beast. While the number of different non-land cards in opponent's decks in a 60-card 1v1 format might be somewhere in the 15 to 20 range, in EDH that number might be 10 times that amount. Getting a foothold in that environment will be a difficult and time-consuming process even in a setting with somewhat consistent decks and players. And in an environment with rapidly changing decks and players, this is amplified.

[6:11] I'm not saying it's impossible. There are plenty of magic players who have learned the game through EDH, and I'm sure there are some who even thrived in this high-stimulation, information-dense environment. There are also likely plenty of people who learned the format somewhat more gradually, but who had plenty of fun throughout the whole process, even if they weren't keeping up 100% the whole time. I certainly don't think it's worth anyone's time and energy to push players away from the Commander format. It has clearly taken a hold of casual magic, and there are lots of aspects of it that are likely fun for newer players. What I am saying, though, is that increasing the card diversity of decks does meaningfully increase the length of time it'll take for a new player to get a foothold within the format. When I made my video about cEDH a few months back, I got a number of interesting comments from people who prefer competitive EDH specifically because there are fewer viable cards in the format that require keeping track of.

[6:59] A few of these were people who had jumped straight into cEDH from a 60-card format or a different card game entirely, and this makes sense on some level. If you're looking to play Commander seriously, and you don't want to have to bother with learning the thousands upon thousands of cards you might see in casual EDH, cEDH is a nice alternative. It may even be, as a casual EDH player in the comments pondered, a smoother experience for those wanting to play Commander with strangers for more reasons than one. I see this as the most reasonable response to my main gripe with cEDH. Yes, fewer cards are viable, and that's good, actually. The issue of the EDH format's card diversity is compounded when decks are equally diverse in their play patterns. The origins of the format were people throwing together their bulk cards they couldn't play in Standard and playing them under the banner of a commander that was vaguely related at best.

[7:46] And this likely resulted in unfocused blobs of mid-range being a dominant deck type, maybe with some funky synergies coming to the fore here and there. And as a casual pick-up format, this makes sense. If decks are built more to produce relaxed games and showcase unusual cards than to win, the presence of those cards can take center stage. Like, sure, you might have to refresh yourself on what Frailly Supplicant does, but it's probably not going to rapidly spell your downfall. However, as decks have gotten more streamlined and have started to accomplish increasingly specific tasks increasingly quickly, lacking knowledge of the ins and outs of what your opponent's deck is doing starts to become more of a problem. As you might expect, this effect also scales with power level up to a certain If you're playing against unaltered precons, you can usually at least assume there will be some sort of synergy-based mid-range thing going on along with a couple predictable side synergy packages.

[8:38] If you're playing against a handful of mid-power mid-range decks, there will likely be less certainty and more surprises, but you still can probably get at least a rough idea of what's going on without knowing the opposing decks. However, it's the power level I'd describe as high-power casual where things start to feel really weird when playing with strangers. Infinite combos, locks, and back-breakingly powerful value engines get assembled on a whim, and with only relatively subtle hints to indicate their approach. Whereas in CEDH, there is a smaller group of viable strategies with off-meta tech being a spicy exception rather than the rule, high-power casual is packed to the rafters with off-meta because there isn't a meaningful meta beyond some archetypes being a bit more popular than Now, I do love me some high-power casual, and I can even see a sort of weird allure in playing with unfamiliar people and unfamiliar decks.

[9:25] It's a zany explosive form of magic where games are often quick, and where there's a ton of sleuthing the ins and outs of opposing decks that happens on the fly. But I'd also wager that this is where a big dose of frustration comes from in pick-up magic, particularly in games that straddle the line between mid and high power, and where players enter with differing expectations. If everybody is already needing to process the cards and decks of three different opponents, and they don't know the cohesive plan of any one opponent, let alone three, well, this is an environment where it's very easy to slip through a power play that opponents just aren't equipped to Sure, one could argue just hold up removal, but that misunderstands the nature of threat assessment. If I know my opponent's decks, I can think to myself, "Okay, I'm 90% sure player A doesn't have the pieces to combo off on their next turn, and player B should be two mana short of a game-winning spell." And then decisions can be made on whether to hold up interaction based on if I have other useful plays to make that outweigh that risk.

[10:21] But, if instead of being 85% sure it's safe to tap out, I have no firm estimate what exactly am I supposed to do? Hold up mana every turn? The answer is probably hold up mana when it's nice to do so, and don't when it's not, and maybe do my best to follow context clues, but then on some level it's just a random luck check for whether or not I lose to some This effect is unfortunately amplified the more unique ways of gaining advantage and winning exist within a game. You can keep track of some number of cards commonly associated with combos, but when decks have plans that are weird or unconventional, there will be plenty of things that slip through the cracks. In competitive terms, you might call this brewer's advantage, but in a casual context, it can create dynamics that aren't necessarily positive for everybody involved.

[11:07] With all that in mind, it might make sense that the experience that gave me my love for weird offbeat EDH decks was actually an environment that had basically none of these problems. From the fall of 2019 to the summer of 2021, my playgroup of five people played about 200 games with a set of 10 budget decks, with each deck seeing an average of one major rebuild over the course of those two years. Though several of these decks were quirky and evocative, and though the card choices in them got pretty funky, the fact that we were exclusively playing with these 10 guild divided decks meant that the plans for each deck and the cards used within those plans became all but public knowledge. Multiple players basically learned the game through this pool and despite the diversity within the pool, this was an ideal environment for that.

[11:50] You could learn the game pieces and what each deck was doing reasonably easily and even if you'd forgotten something, other players at the table were likely vocalizing relevant information. If you don't think about it too hard, you might assume that this trait is shared by a lot of casual playgroups. And yes, the best arguments against decks with unusual cards and unique game plans do relate to pick-up games with largely unfamiliar opponents. But plenty of these arguments also apply to games within dedicated playgroups. For one, players these days often have a lot of decks. While the idea of building a second Commander deck was silly to me in 2015, a quick poll in the Patreon channel of our Discord server showed that around 60% of respondents had at least eight decks.

[12:30] While the average is probably lower than this, I have to imagine a lot of dedicated playgroups still feature a hefty number of unique decks among the various players, well above the 10 seen at my table a few years back. In addition, not all playgroups meet frequently enough to fully keep track of the ins and outs of each other's decks. While my small playgroup of 20-year-olds played several games a week at the height of pandemic-fueled boredom, plenty of Magic players are busy adults with time-consuming jobs, time-consuming children, and extremely dedicated all-bar D&amp;D campaign, or some combination of these things. There also might be a somewhat rotating player group with fresh decks being a regular sighting. Under these sorts of circumstances, much of the information overload present in pick-up EDH will likely also be present.

[13:13] And if this is the case, one could argue that players playing simpler decks with more commonly seen cards may very well lead to more fun for everybody at the table. So, that's my case for why running funky unique decks is not an unquestioned good and can in fact amplify one of the biggest problems with the casual EDH format, the overwhelming amount of information it presents players with. And let me be clear, I find this argument extremely interesting, almost paralyzingly interesting. And yet, the deck building conclusions that it gestures at run almost perfectly contradictory to the hipster tendencies that all but define my deck building style. So, how do we square that circle? Well, for starters, in all of the examples I gave of what might constitute a bad experience as a result of decks being weird and unusual, there are tons of other factors that might contribute to the information density at the table.

[14:04] For example, I emphasized that this issue is vastly more problematic in settings with strangers and unknown decks, but the unknowability of decks isn't a set-in-stone thing. You and your opponents can tell each other what your decks do, and you can go into whatever amount of detail suits the decks present and suits the game you want to play. Whenever I play with new people at my local game store, I'll generally give some explanation of the deck I'm playing while I'm shuffling up, and I'll often ask for the same from my opponents. Even when it's trading relatively simple explanations, this act can allow players to go into games with a sense of groundedness, having at least some idea of what they're getting into. There are also additional actions during games that can further elucidate what's happening within a game, and a relatively basic one I've seen pretty often is verbally differentiating commonly game-ending spells from other spells.

[14:53] For example, saying, "I play Llanowar Elves" versus "I attempt to cast Skyshroud Elf." I like this a lot because it's not even an insult to the game knowledge of your opponents. On the contrary, you're treating them like seasoned veterans of playing against your deck, who would know that you resolving Skyshroud Elf is a problem, or at least something worth paying full attention to. I'll even sometimes draw attention to important information I've revealed. When I'm playing my Francisco Malcolm deck against people who haven't played against it much before, if I reveal a Shred Memory off of an Explorer on turn four, I might say something like, "I'll keep Shred Memory on top. There's a particular two-mana card I might want to transmute for sometime soon." as a gentle reminder of what my deck is trying to do.

[15:35] Now, that's the only deck I give that amount of information for since it's a deceptively fast combo deck that's generally on the more powerful end of my store's high-power casual pods, but that's just an example of how giving extra information can reduce whiplash and lead to a better play experience. Another method I've commonly seen is keeping revealed cards revealed longer than is required, most often putting a revealed card into hand face up for a turn or two, or leaving the revealed top card of a library face up until it's This likewise removes a bit of mental strain from opponents by not requiring them to immediately commit revealed cards to memory. Some of this might seem a bit obvious, but I feel the need to say it explicitly because I got a lot of confusing comments on my Commander as a combo piece video from players who seem to think that deception is a key feature of the EDH format.

[16:22] Not bluffing, like purposefully concealing key details about the cards contained within one's deck for purposes of pulling off a gotcha win. This is obviously fine in competitive formats since there is a meta counter-meta dynamic at play, and I imagine some people enjoy playing this way in casual EDH as well. However, to reiterate an earlier point, decks being unknown makes threat assessment vastly more difficult and as a result injects a lot of extra luck into games, and I certainly don't find that enjoyable personally. I also find the idea of trying to sneak through an explosive win against a table who's not prepared for or looking for that kind of EDH to be a little distasteful, but that's subjective territory and I can't claim to know the desires of any particular EDH table, so I won't throw any extra words at that particular subject.

[17:10] Beyond the gameplay methods for getting around this information overload, there can also be attributes of decks at the table that affect the degree of information present. Is this the part of the video where I find yet another excuse to tell you to play more removal? Well, kind of, but not exactly. The other big thing that made the $25 deck pool I used to play so good for avoiding information overload was that the decks were interaction dense, as well as low-slung and grindy to be able to handle the aforementioned The fact that the pool began with two board wipe dense control decks meant that every midrange deck was designed with the goal of not overcommitting to board, which means fewer non-land permanents on the board and less of the escalation type cards that typically pump mid-sized midrange boards up to being alarming masses of assorted permanents in a lot of casual EDH games.

[17:55] I should be clear. This worked well because these 10 decks formed a little meta, and your mileage may vary in multiple regards if you try to emulate any of this in a pod of more conventionally built EDH decks. However, it does gesture at a vision for EDH that's much more approachable than a lot of what I see at local game stores. And while it's not necessarily a vision that can or should be copied, it gives a useful benchmark to reference for what EDH can look like. When removal is absent and everybody is just allowed to do their deck's snowballing midrange thing, board states often end up utterly caked in the extra noise of various synergy permanents and utility creatures and tokens, and I think it's always worth asking the question of if that's a worthwhile way to play, and if there are ways to avoid that sort of board state.

[18:40] Beyond my practical recommendations, I also think it's worth considering what EDH represents. Because you may have noticed that the potential version of EDH I gestured at earlier in the video, one where decks operate within a narrower set of potential game plans with a narrower range of cards, is one that more closely resembles 60-card formats. Chasing this vision for the format might have its benefits in some ways, but at what cost? There are so many things that can only be done in EDH, and so many cards that aren't really viable or even legal in most other formats. I think it's worth considering the case that EDH can be an overwhelming format at times, and I think it's also worth considering how to mitigate those problems.

[19:22] It might even be worthwhile for newer players to try and sprinkle some variety into their MTG diet. I'm of the opinion that almost all magic players can benefit from playing limited, and cube can give a nice way to play limited without feeling like you're wasting money on packs that you haven't yet developed the skill to fully utilize. But, no. Reducing the variety of the format isn't the solution, and it isn't worth it. The creation of the original Elder Dragon Highlander format is often credited to Adam Staley, and Staley conceptualized the format as a way to inject variety and creativity into a game whose constructed formats were already rigid and meta-driven, even in the first few years of the game. Singleton meant being forced to play with underutilized cards.

[20:03] A wide card pool meant that decks could be constructed with basically any old cards sitting around, and a higher life total meant more space for creative but slower strategies that would likely get squeezed out by faster decks in a 20 health format. An Elder Dragon at the head of things gave an undeniable symbolic core to decks. A format as large as EDH can't be solely governed by the vision of one man 30 years ago, but you have to admit, he was kind of onto something.
