# A Tale of Two Commander Tax Evaders
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/rk3o-DWPVrI
date: 2025-10-29 | views: 66,080 | likes: 2,484 | comments: 362 | length: 16:06 | words: 3,088 | wpm: 192.0
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 1:48 Tax evasion method; 6:18 Power Level; 12:03 Conclusion

[0:00] Yuriko, the Tiger's Shadow, is a pretty unique card. It's the most popular Dimir commander by a country mile. It's one of only two creature-type based commanders that sees common cEDH play, the other being Magda, of course. And Yuriko does not pay commander tax. I guess if you're casting her for her base cost, she does, but more realistically, Yuriko almost always gets cast for a commander ninjutsu cost, which is forever pegged at two mana. Last week, I talked about Eminence as one of the two major exceptions to the way commanders work, not even requiring a commander to be on the board to have an initial effect. And this is the other, not costing additional mana for subsequent commander casts.

[0:41] Yuriko, in particular, has been singled out as a design mistake, including by Gavin Verhey, who worked on the original card. And I agree with that assessment. Commander ninjutsu is this bespoke ability created with the one task of bringing ninjutsu into the command zone. And the fact that command tax wasn't a part of that ability seems like an obvious oversight in retrospect. The results of this have bled into the player experience, with Yuriko commanding a similar salt score to that of Edgar Markov, the most contentious of the Eminence commanders. People are bothered by this card, and they dread playing against it. However, I think it's interesting to dig into why Yuriko is a problem for people, and how important her tax evasion is in that equation.

[1:23] Because I think the line for not paying command tax is actually blurrier than it seems, and more sensitive to the specifics of a given card, with Yuriko's other features being equally important as her unique method of entry in creating her infamous Broadly, there are two things that contribute to Yuriko, in particular, having a uniquely frustrating play pattern for a lot of players, her vibes and her power level. By vibes, I mean that the way Yuriko cheats commander tax feels uniquely bad among commanders. And to demonstrate that, we should talk about some other tax evaders, and why they don't drum up the same sort of ire. Firstly, let's talk about the squeeze of the world, legendary creatures that can be cast from graveyard.

[2:06] On the surface, these may seem similar to something like Yuriko, since you can continue to cast them for some fixed cost after they die. But the comparison quickly falls apart. Firstly, all but one of them will be whisked back to the command zone by any now commonplace exile-based removal. But more importantly, they obey the rules of 60-card magic. These cards are designed with the idea of them being cast over and over, baked into the design. And their function in a 60-card format will be identical to their function in commander after the first cast. The uniquely potent thing about commander is the command zone, and these are skipping out on a large portion of the benefit of that zone. One step up from these would be Hogaak, a commander with the two different discount keywords of convoke and delve.

[2:52] Hogaak also shares being castable from the graveyard with the previous example, but perhaps more relevantly, regardless of where the card is being cast from, you won't be spending mana. If it gets exiled a couple times, the command zone cost will go up accordingly, but paying in exiles from graveyard or tapped creature tokens will often feel much less meaningful than paying in mana. You won't be experiencing paying for Hogaak as a linear barrier in the same way you would with most other commanders. Nonetheless, Hogaak still feels fine because its payment method performs the gesture of paying command tax. A big part of what makes Yuriko frustrating is that it feels like the Yuriko player is exempted from a core rule of the commander format.

[3:33] When other commanders get removed, they're harder to cast, but Yuriko simply isn't. Even if Hogaak bucks some of the conventional wisdom, it still doesn't feel like a major outlier because you're still expending additional resources. This idea comes into even sharper focus when we consider Liesa. Liesa, Shroud of Dusk, is a five-mana commander who, instead of requiring two more mana for each subsequent command zone cast, requires paying two life for each previous cast. As a Liesa player, I will tell you right now, that is not a meaningful cost. In the 40-life format of commander, most players are plenty willing to fork over three life in exchange for one mana. And two life for one mana, as seen in something like a Phyrexian mana symbol or an untapped shockland, is pretty much a no-brainer.

[4:18] Cutting that no-brainer rate in half, one life for one mana, makes it basically free and will rarely feel even a little bit relevant. So, why doesn't Liesa come to mind as a chronic tax evader? The answer, along with other factors we'll get to later, is the gesture. If my Liesa dies, when I cast her again, I adjust my life total by down two numbers. If I need to cast her again after that, four numbers. It's not significant, but it's something, an acknowledgement that my commander has died, and this is not the first time I'm casting her. I'm not playing by the exact same rules as everyone else, but I'm still playing the same format, and I recognize the existence of that format's rules.

[4:59] This brings me to an example that, while less problematic than Yuriko, is still a bit hairier than the other ones I've mentioned so far, She is a three-mana bant commander with the ability to pay four mana to put her from the command zone into play at instant speed. This ability doesn't perform the gesture, and it does kind of totally cheat command tax. So, what makes this different from Yuriko? This is where the details get a bit more granular. You could argue that four mana is larger than three mana, so Derevi's cost will usually go up at least once. Though, it's not hard to imagine somebody arguing that flash and uncounterability mitigates this difference, making the four-mana cast option an appealing one in its own right.

[5:39] To me, the more potent element is the raw number. Four is a lot more than two. Paying two mana for a commander repeatedly is quite inherently powerful. You hit the field early, and then subsequent plays will leave boatloads of mana open for follow-up plays or counterspells or so on. By contrast, paying four mana repeatedly for Derevi, or five mana repeatedly for Liesa, feels like more meaningful a cost. It's still quite nice to have spare mana later in the game when you're on seven or eight lands, and not needing to worry about having an uncastably expensive commander, but that dynamic exists on a decidedly lesser caliber than something like Yuriko. So far, I've been ignoring the text boxes of all the cards I've been talking about, which has its upsides in isolating specific design elements.

[6:25] However, now it's time to talk about the other reason Yuriko feels so frustrating, her power level. What I mean by power level is simply how much power you get based on the amount of mana you pay. Yuriko's text box does such a large amount for two mana that it's almost absurd. The actual text reads, "Whenever a ninja you control deals combat damage to a player, reveal the top card of your library and put it into your hand. Each opponent loses life equal to that card's mana value." If we wanted to grossly simplify this, we could replace this with the text, "Whenever a ninja you control deals combat damage to a player, draw a card and each opponent loses two life." Trying to find an equivalent card led to Sisay, the Anointed, a six-mana Selesnya commander who could realistically be more like four mana given the niche position of snakes, and Tovolar, a three-mana wolf and werewolf commander with a bit of added utility for flipping werewolves, but no equivalent damage ability.

[7:16] And Tovolar is a pretty good tribal commander. A whole lot of tribes would swoon at receiving that level of utility from the command zone. So, we'll say that Yuriko is along the lines of a powerful three-mana commander or a moderately powered four-mana commander, and it's castable for two mana as many times as you like, as long as you're able to pay the ninjutsu cost. So, how hard is that? Well, a quick visit to the Yuriko EDHrec page makes that somewhat clear. Ornithopter exists as an evasive zero-cost creature that can get Yuriko into play, and there are a ton of great evasive one-mana creatures that can do the same. Thousand-Faced Shadow, Changeling Outcast, and Mothdust Changeling are all also ninjas. And there are other cards like Fairy Seer, Siren Stormtamer, and Hope of Ghirapur that have meaningful other upside with Yuriko's game plan.

[8:02] The ninjutsu element of commander ninjutsu decidedly is a cost, but given that other ninjutsu creatures also make use of these evasive little dudes as well, it's hard to call it too dramatic a cost. By comparison, Derevi's untapping effect for three-ish mana is far from bad, but it doesn't give direct value or direct damage, unlike Yuriko, which gives both for two to three mana. Derevi is a good commander, and you can do a lot of things with her, but those things require the convergence of other elements of your deck. And it's perfectly possible to stall out, even if Derevi is generating you a lot of mana. The power level point comes into even sharper focus when we consider Liesa, whose ability drains a player for two life whenever they cast a spell.

[8:46] An equivalent effect is on a pretty fairly costed three-mana red enchantment called Spellshock. So, for two extra mana, we're slapping that on a 5/5 angel with a couple keywords. The results is fine. It's okay, an adequate overall package. And Liesa commands a relatively modest salt score of 0.8, even as a group slug commander that effectively cheats command tax. One interesting exercise might be to imagine a world in which Liesa drains players for four, or even five, when they cast a spell instead. That design wouldn't be overpowered beyond the realm of possibility, but it would be pushing toward the upper reaches of what you might want to put on a five-mana card. And for that reason, I think that version of Liesa would be absolutely despised, a monstrous commander that players shudder in fear thinking about.

[9:32] Barring counterspells, the best case scenario there is your opponent slams it down, you spend five life and some mana to remove it, and they spend some life to bring it back out again the following turn, without any commander tax. Nauseating stuff. Obviously, this is more of a hardcore group slug design, but nevertheless, this is the sort of power territory Yuriko lives in. We could alternatively imagine if Yuriko had a commander ninjutsu cost of four, with everything else about the card remaining the same. It would remain a fairly decent ninja's commander, still a more powerful card than current Leisa, but it would lose its status as an unstoppable freight train of damage and value, instead being costed similarly to a coastal piracy plus a creature bounce.

[10:13] This elucidates a weird quirk of the commander format. Although it's a casual format where power is modulated by social factors and rule zero tools such as the bracket system, power is still strongly felt in how upsetting a card design is. A lot of designs that are unobjectionable now would become extremely objectionable with a single tweak, ala five Leisa, and plenty of currently objectionable designs would suddenly cease to be problems at all with a nerf to their power level. This power relationship can also be seen in the salt scores that are compiled by EDH Track by asking players how much they're bothered by various cards, which I've already referenced a couple times in this video. The first couple dozen saltliest cards all have some clear game play reason for bothering opponents, but what about Gaea's Cradle?

[10:58] What about Necropotence? What about Mana Vault or The Great Henge or Rhyming Throne? These cards are purely proactive and none of them do anything that unique, but they just so happen to be at the highest power level among all equivalent options. So, they end up high in the salt charts regardless. This relates to fairness. Even in a casual format, there might be a sense of something an opponent does being unfair outside the bounds of ideal game play. I'm not immune from this either. I dislike the design of Rhystic Study in Commander intrinsically for a lot of reasons I'll probably get into in a future video, and I also dislike playing against it. Relevant to the point here, would I dislike Rhystic Study less if it was a five mana card rather than a three mana one?

[11:41] Yeah, I would. It wouldn't solve my core gripes with the card, but it would bother me less if it cost more mana. We can kind of see how this concept of fairness applies to Yuriko. A full command tax cheater will garner some baseline level of frustration for opponents, and that frustration will then be amplified depending on the power level of the card it lives on, very high in the case of Yuriko. So, what does all this mean for the future? Should Wizards of the Coast avoid cards with alternative command tax structures or should they print more of them? My attitude here shares some similarities with my attitude about eminence cards in the sense that they're both motivated by a sense of curiosity and a spirit of play. I like it when the mechanics of the EDH format are tinkered with, utilized, and recontextualized in ways that make for interesting game play.

[12:28] I enjoy designs that reference commanders and involve the number of times a commander has been cast from the command zone, both on commanders themselves and on supporting cards. I also like alternative costs like the ones I've discussed earlier and ways of interacting with command tax in some way. This choice of wording may hint at the line I draw though, and that's that commanders need to make the gesture. They need to acknowledge in some form or other that they exist within a format where your commander costs more each time it's redeployed. Hogaak and Leisa both make the gesture, even if their command tax feels insignificant at Partners make the gesture. Some will argue that it's unfair that each partner has a separate command tax, but how they work with command tax is still an acknowledgement of the mechanic and is one interpretation of how it could function with two commanders.

[13:17] On the other hand, a big part of the reason Derevi and especially Yuriko are commonly disliked commanders is that they don't make the gesture. Their design totally ignores the existence of command tax, and if you play either of them, you don't even really need to learn what command tax is. My reasoning for why commanders should acknowledge the existence of command tax in some way is similar to the reasons why I think eminence commanders should feel incomplete if they go uncast. Flirting with the mechanical borders of the commander format is a lovely time, but it creates a weird dynamic if the design you end up with feels totally outside those borders. It creates an unfair feeling when three players are following a set of rules that the other player is totally exempt from.

[13:59] So, that's one half of my design philosophy here, and the other half is that for cards like Leisa or Tasigur that make the gesture but frequently feel inconsequential in their casting cost, it's important to keep in mind how the card will feel with 100% uptime. The current delve boys, Tasigur and Hogaak, feel fine in this way with their most powerful usages involving their mana value rather than what they do if they stick around on board. Leisa is likewise fine, if anything a bit modest in terms of power level. The point here is just that cards that are easier than normal to redeploy need to keep that in mind with their design, and that relates to both power level and play pattern. If a commander is disgustingly powerful, it's going to feel especially unpleasant if it's difficult to keep off the board.

[14:43] Likewise, if a card is oppressive in some way, making it hard for some other decks to play the game, the feelings of powerlessness it imbues onto those decks will be amplified when conventional methods of dealing with the commander don't work very well. I've enjoyed the feeling that my opponents can't escape Leisa when I've played with her in the past, and that is a fun vibe to toy with, but it really only works because her effect puts a small tax on a plentiful resource, and it's up to me to try and make that plentiful resource scarce. It makes it a little harder for me to critique Wizards of the Coast when the biggest instance of a de facto command tax cheater is actually a really good design, but oh Be more like Leisa is what I'm saying, I Thanks for watching, and thanks to Architect for supporting the channel.

[15:27] In preparation for an upcoming event, I've done some light upgrading to my Mathas, Fiend Seeker decks and some side grading to my Radha deck, and it was easy to keep things organized with Architect's dual level category system. A link to my decks is in the description if you want to look at some of the tweaks I've made. Speaking of upcoming events, I'm going to be at LDX P Tacoma this coming weekend, both enjoying Commandfest and hopefully playing a bit of Riftbound as well. Most of the convention is available to attend for free, and I hope to see you there. Also, if you want to support what I do on this channel, you can become a YouTube member or subscribe to my Patreon, and you'll be joining the lovely people you see on screen now and All right, that's all for this one.
