# The Four Ways an EDH Deck Can Fail
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/tsrgFKgkqkQ
date: 2026-09-08 | views: 123,074 | likes: 1,949 | comments: 104 | length: 10:49 | words: 2,313 | wpm: 214.1
chapters: 0:00 no plan; 2:42 plan doesn't happen; 5:20 plan sucks for opponents

[0:00] I'm currently finishing up a round of deck reviews that will be out hopefully sometime soon, and it made me think about the different hurdles a deck can face. Not necessarily the mechanical weaknesses of a deck, but the fundamental challenges that make a possibly promising deck dead in the water. So here, I'm going to go through the four basic fail states of a deck, the things that go so wrong they can make it totally unworkable. All four of these focus around the idea of a deck's plan, so the natural starting point is number one, your deck has no plan. This is the first way a deck can fail, and it simply means that the different elements of the deck don't really come together to form something that makes sense. It's just a collection of cards. Now, I should be clear here.

[0:40] It is absolutely possible to make a deck that feels cohesive and has a sense of direction without specifically thinking of a plan. Some commanders or mechanics or card types just naturally lend themselves well to a focused deck that can win games. If you have a Jodah, the Unifier deck, it's going to be able to create massive boards of legendary creatures. And if you have a landfall deck, it's going to be able to generate a large resource advantage while putting on some pressure. However, there are other mechanics where dedicating a deck to them won't automatically create something that makes sense. Let's say you really like the death touch mechanic and you want to build a deck around it. There's Fynn, the Fangbearer, but you want something that includes black as well. So maybe you grab The Serpent Society or Aveline de Grandpre.

[1:23] You add some death touch supporting cards like Hooded Blightfang and then drop in a whole bunch of your favorite death touch creatures. Great. But is this actually a cohesive deck? It really depends on how we filled out the deck. Death touch creatures doesn't really gesture at a particular gameplay timeline, late game board state, or plan for winning. So a death touch deck could have all sorts of stuff in it. Maybe it's a lot of combat damage to a player effects since people don't want to block death touch creatures. Maybe it's some counter amplifiers to pair with Aveline's combat damage effect or The Serpent Society's ward. Maybe it's some snake synergies since we've got a lot of those. And maybe it's just piles upon piles of death touch creatures we like. Depending on what we filled out our deck with and how dialed into it we were, the deck might feel great, but it could also feel like an uncoordinated mass of nothing.

[2:10] This is where plan comes in. A deck should really have an idea of roughly what specific board state it would like to create, when, and how that board state will lead to victory. If instead it just has a mood board of the most aesthetic looking death touch creatures or threshold creatures or some other keyword creatures, it's going to run into all sorts of problems. So, okay. Let's say you figured things out. You know who you are and what you want to be doing. But what if that want isn't turning into reality? This is where we get to the second failure condition. Number two, your deck fails to execute its plan. This is where you know what your deck wants to be doing, but it just doesn't seem to consistently be happening, at least not on a reasonable timeline.

[2:54] To solve this, I need to introduce a deck building concept that I like to call widening your on-ramp. Magic the Gathering is a game of chance, and you can think about your game plan as a big bucket that your deck is randomly firing tennis balls at. Sometimes you'll hit, and your desired game plan will happen on your desired timeline, while other times that won't happen. Such is life. What this bucket system represents, randomness, is entirely unavoidable, but your deck building choices control the size of the bucket. Missing land drops will make up some percentage of that miss territory, a large percentage if your deck is strongly enabled by a commander that costs four or more mana. So, adding lands to a deck that's low on them can increase the size of that bucket.

[3:35] Another thing that increases the size of the bucket is trying to keep your deck's payoffs lower costed and more broadly useful. High cost amplifiers generally increase your deck's peak power level, but these typically don't help you jump into your game plan. So, each one you add also slightly narrows your deck's on-ramp. All sorts of other cards also might slightly narrow your deck's on-ramp. And I've linked a video I made a couple months ago that goes more into that. Long story short, it can go a long way if you make sure that a relatively wide portion of your cards are helpful early. The other big thing that can widen your on-ramp is card draw. If your deck isn't seeming to work, my first suggestion will always be to add more draw and filtering.

[4:16] A lot of times, this will simply solve the problem because a ton of EDH decks aren't running enough draw, but that's not the only benefit. Adding card draw helps even if that's not the main problem with a deck because it helps pick out what cards are working and what cards are not. It's easy for a card that doesn't work well to stay in your deck if you only see it once every four games, but bump that number up to one in three or one in two, and suddenly you're coming face-to-face with its issues a lot more often. The same goes for cards that feel really good in your deck. If you've got something that's a surprise powerhouse, drawing it in more games can help that become clear, and you can modulate your deck to play into its strengths accordingly. As a final note here, sometimes the decks you play against might just be faster than your desired game plan can reasonably be.

[5:00] You can optimize as much as you like, but some ideas just aren't suited for a particular caliber of game plan due to a limited pool of cards or some inherent weaknesses. I might make a video about those at some point, but for now, I'm going to move past them and assume that you've succeeded in assembling a deck that has a plan and is able to execute it. What could go wrong from there? Number three, your plan sucks for other people. Commander is a social format. You're playing a game with three other people, and you're generally there to have a fun time. So, what happens if you pull up with your beautiful new creation and it just bumps the table right out? I wish this was an area where I could just tell you what's A-OK and what's off-limits, but really it's kind of complicated, and there are two main variables at play here.

[5:43] Variable one is who you're playing with. Some playgroups are going to be a lot more accepting of spicy decks than others. And generally, people who've played the game longer will be more on the accepting side. It might strike some people as weird that a large group of players are okay with lockout control and land destruction and the like, but it makes more sense when we think about it in terms of type one fun versus type two fun. Type one fun is doing stuff that feels good in the moment, whereas type two fun is about doing stuff that kind of sucks in the moment, but is rewarding later. Playing a fiddly midrange pile is type one fun, whereas defeating an especially nasty opposing deck or navigating a perilous situation falls more into the realm of type two fun.

[6:23] This might sound like I'm grouping people into type one players and type two players, and there will be people who lean toward one or the other, but ultimately almost all players are going to enjoy a mixture of these two things in varying amounts. You'll find the dino-playingest of Timmys getting jazzed at the sight of some degenerate Xur the Enchanter nonsense, and on the other hand, you'll get an old-school player who doesn't particularly want to play against your Kefka deck today. And that's the important thing here. Whether or not your opponents want to play against a deck isn't necessarily an all-or-nothing question. They might be fine playing against a spicy deck once in a while, but making a deck that's more irritating to play against might mean less times when your opponents want to play against it.

[7:03] And if your goal is to make an everyday default sort of deck, that could easily constitute a failure. The second variable here is your own willingness to subject your opponents to things. If you know that you're somebody who will struggle to enjoy playing your deck if your opponents react negatively to things you do, you'll want to avoid some of the video tools out there. On the other hand, if you don't care one bit about your opponents having fun, you'll have a much wider range of stuff you can do. Whether or not that's a good thing is another question, but it is a true statement. Personally, I'm somewhere in the middle. I like when my opponents are having fun, but I also tend to play decks that present a very specific type of problem to my opponents, and that isn't always well received in the moment.

[7:44] Getting challenged is challenging. Sometimes we end up driving through the outskirts of Frowntown, but I at least try not to stick people in the same sort of difficult situation for too long. It is a balance, but it's what I need to do to play the decks I like to play in a social format. So, okay. Let's say your deck has a plan, is able to accomplish that plan, and you can make peace with whatever the opposing reaction to that plan is. What else could possibly go wrong? Number four, your plan sucks for you. Sometimes a deck just doesn't live up to our hopes for it. You imagine a particular play pattern, a particular sequence of actions, or a particular game state, but upon attaining that, you realize that it just isn't that fun for you. This is a very common issue, and to me, it's just a part of figuring out what it is that you enjoy within the Commander format.

[8:31] Some people enjoy finding the weirdest combos out there, while others do not. Some people like playing an extremely complicated pile of nonsense where there's always another possible line, and to other people, that sounds like hell. Some people like making a massive board full of beasts, and other people fall asleep playing that sort of deck. You can take guesses as to what you will or won't like, but you won't know for sure until you've tried it out. And, like the last failure condition, this one isn't necessarily all or nothing. You might put together a deck that you really like playing sometimes, but that simply can't be your bread and butter. That is a failure if you were looking to build a deck you can play with a lot, but it might not be so bad if you're just looking for variety.

[9:11] It's also not a crime to get tired of a deck eventually. If you build a deck that executes a very cool, very specific game plan, you might get a kick out of playing it for the first half dozen times, but it might start to lose its luster after that. If you poured a ton of money into buying it in paper and bling it out, that's going to sting a bit. However, a deck like that eventually falling by the wayside doesn't take away from it being fun in those first handful of games. Doesn't negate your past enjoyment. The key here is expectations. If you're building a deck, try to have an idea of how often you expect to play it and how long you expect it to stay fresh. No deck is a failure if you have yourself in the right mindset for it, and that mindset is something you can build with Thanks for watching, and thanks to Architect for supporting the channel.

[9:58] Architect's folder system lets me comfortably group my sometimes decks separately from my always decks, which feels correct to me for some reason. Well, I guess I have my Malfegor deck in the main deck folder, but what can you say? A guy's got his favorites. A link to my decks is down in the description. I'd also like to thank Dragon Shield for their support of the channel and for keeping my decks secure. I'd love to resleeve my Radha deck at some point, but I made a pact that I'd wait until a sleeve broke, and so far those peach dual mats are surviving the thousands of shuffles I put them through just fine. You can grab yourself your own set of dual mats at the affiliate link in the description, and you can use code Salubrious for 5% off. Doing so supports the channel and lets me keep doing what I do. Also supporting the channel are my lovely patrons and YouTube members, some of whom are on screen now.

[10:42] If you want to join this esteemed group of individuals, you can join as a YouTube member or follow the link to my Patreon down in the
