# In Defense of Eminence
channel: Salubrious Snail | https://youtu.be/XE126Dy_JU8
date: 2025-10-21 | views: 106,130 | likes: 3,852 | comments: 764 | length: 24:22 | words: 4,973 | wpm: 204.1
chapters: 0:00 Intro; 3:03 Hazard 1 - Colors; 7:10 Hazard 2 - Specificity and Interactability; 12:55 Hazard 3 - Direct Resources; 16:01 How to design Eminence cards that work well; 22:19 The Bottom Line

[0:00] One of the most controversial and often maligned mechanics anywhere in the commander format is eminence. Eminence is a keyword officially on five legendary creatures and unofficially on a sixth. And its effect is simple. It lets one line of text on a commander also work while the card is in the command zone. So Sedar Jabari of Zafir's first line of text allows you to loot, to draw, and discard whenever you attack with one or more knights. And this happens regardless of whether he himself is on the battlefield or in the command zone. Then he has another line of text that only applies while he's on the field and plays off the eminence line, reanimating a night creature whenever he deals combat damage to an opponent. This is how all six of the eminence creatures work.

[0:40] There will be the eminence ability that helps the deck a bit earlier in the game, and then the commander will be a sort of follow-up to that once played, amplifying the advantage gained by the eminence ability. If you're somebody who's totally new to the keyword, this could seem like a pretty reasonable sort of ability structure. A relatively unobjectionable way for a commander to be designed. And in this video, I'm going to argue just that. Mostly, eminence is a largely fine keyword that I would like to see again in some form. And its bad reputation is primarily due to some questionable design decisions on Wizards of the Coast's part when they designed some of the original Eminence cards. There are a lot of places I could start my daring defense, but I'm going to start with two interesting things that happened this year.

[1:22] In May, Attra Prader's voice lost her position as the most popular commander. Then last month, she lost her position as the second most popular commander as well. What replaced her was the dragon and Edgar Marov, both commanders with the keyword eminence. If you're unfamiliar with these, you're probably asking, what could these commanders do to make them this popular? And let's start there. Edgar Marov's eminence ability reads, "Whenever you cast another vampire spell, create a 1- one black vampire creature token." More mid-powered Edgar decks will typically run a wide range of different mana values and enjoy the extra vampire every turn or two. Whereas higherpowered Edgar decks will blast the table with an endless wave of low-cost vampires to take advantage of the complete lack of any restriction on Eddie's eminence ability, as well as the plentiful gooffs Mardu vampires has access to.

[2:11] Edgar the playable creature is a six- mana 44 with first strike and haste that gives all your vampires a plus one plus1 counter when he attacks. Not a bad effect, but certainly not something most Edgar players will be rushing to spend six mana to get. What about the dragon, the current most popular commander? His Eminence ability simply reads, "Your other dragon spells cost one less to cast." Unlike Edgar Marov, the dragon's creature form is quite good if you have the mana for it. With him being a nine- mana 10-10 flyer with the ability, whenever one or more dragons you control attack, draw that many cards, then you may put a permanent card from your hand onto the battlefield. This collective package doesn't require much explanation.

[2:51] The eminence ability is a powerful mana discount for dragons, and the field ability is a powerful value engine with dragons, collectively producing the two primordial resources for generically playing the game as a dragon deck. So, these are our two most popular commanders at present day. They're also controversial and disliked by a lot of players, particularly Edgar Marov. I am among those players, and I don't think either of these cards should have been printed in the form they were. However, the reasons why these cards are seen as problematic by me and some other players are complicated and have layers to them. The simplest answer is because they're powerful, and I actually would consider this a major feature in what makes these cards problematic. However, power alone doesn't make a commander an issue.

[3:34] Cece Weatherlight Captain is one of the most powerful commanders in the game, but I don't think most people would consider her any sort of problem. She operates in a unique way and within a niche that has other good options for players who want a different play style, and her CEDH variants don't tend to bleed play patterns into casual in the same way some other commanders do. So, what makes these weaker commanders more of an issue by comparison? One of these is simple. Being associated with an iconic creature type imbuss them with a natural casual commander aura. A tutor engine like sis obviously feels weird at a table of precons, but that big old dragon deck might pass the vibe check just fine. This is the classic feature of a pub stomper commander.

[4:16] Not strictly being powerful, but being out of place, easily wriggling its way into games it might not really belong in. Another power associated issue I'd identify with these is something I alluded to when I was talking about ce earlier. These two crowd other commanders out of lanes. Dragons and vampires are two of the most iconic Magic the Gathering creature types and they're naturally going to be popular choices for players new to the commander format. The issue then is that both of these commanders ended up being by far the strongest option for their creature type. And that fact then pushed any new dragon or vampire player looking for a shortcut to a strong deck to get there by paying a lot of money for the singular strongest commander.

[4:57] Edgar Marov spent four years over the $50 mark and the dragon spent two years at a similar price with both of their peak periods corresponding with the surge in the popularity of the commander format that started in late 2020. Initially the connection with eminence might seem pretty surface level. A powerful eminence card takes over a creature type and a weaker eminence card might not do this. But this misses a key feature which is how eminence interacts with colors. See the dragon's color identity is part of its issue. If dragon had the same eminence text but was motto red or even red blue, suddenly that's an actual niche. Bladewing could have stayed the black red choice. Atark could have stayed the red green choice. And the ever funky scion of the dragon could have stayed the choice for players who wanted all five colors.

[5:40] But if you instead make a fivecolor option that's dramatically better than the others. And if that power doesn't even require casting the card, you destroy a lot of the reason to consider other options. Even if you don't want to play with a fivecolor mana base, the discount alone makes dragon already better than most of the other options, even if it's never cast. The same goes for Edgar. Vampires are traditionally mono black, followed by black red, followed by black white. If Edgar had been put into the relatively unexplored in 2017 color identity of black white, suddenly vampire players would have a choice between the more established vampire identity of black red and the newer Ixelon centered identity of black white with this spicy new commander.

[6:23] Instead, both of these are slurped up by Edgar. And the fact that most of his power is in his eminence ability means that players don't even need to try to be in three colors. Just stick him at the head of your black red vampire deck and cast him when you draw your command tower and bing bang boom, your deck just received a strict upgrade. To be clear, I don't think it's wrong for Wizards of the Coast to have wanted big powerful uniting options with lots of colors to hand out to some iconic creature types. However, Eminence has some unique problems in fitting this role. And for this reason, I would lean toward two colors or less on Eminence commanders as a rule, especially if they're in a niche where they risk overshadowing other options. I might have even done this with the more recently printed Sedar Jabari of Zafir, which works with knights, though at least that one has a better balance between the power of the eminence ability and the power of the castable creature.

[7:10] Now, it might sound like this niche element being tied to iconic creature types is a big part of my problem with Edgar and the air dragon. And in a sense, it is, but tying Eminence to cards with a creature type actually accomplishes an important goal. Increasing the specificity of Eminence abilities. See, having an effect baked into your gameplay for free is pretty potent. Some players might find it inherently problematic, and my personal opinion is that those players are underestimating the sheer power that a traditional command zone can offer a deck. But still, getting an effect without paying for it is certainly notable, and it's important that this effect is specific so as to contain how out of hand it can get. This is true for both the trigger of the eminence ability and for the payoff of it.

[7:53] Ideally, it should be a specific trigger that provides a specific output. But if you're going to make one a bit more general, you really need to crank up the specificity of the other. Let's take the example of an eminence ability that gets this right in my book, that of Arabo, Roar of the World. On paper, this ability is by no means weak. Giving plus 3 plus 3 to a creature every combat step from the very first turn of the game is quite powerful, allowing for some hefty beatdown early and amplifying later damage done with various effects that play off of damage dealt. However, this effect, in addition to typically falling under the generally less problematic aggro archetype, is specific. It's an effect that makes a cat more powerful at attacking.

[8:34] There's a couple double strike cats and a singular infect cat that will offer the occasional early kill on a blockerless opponent, but with the cat limitation, you don't have access to a whole lot of cards that would be powerful if they were a lot bigger on an early turn. This specificity counterintuitively has a diversifying effect on the play patterns of Arabo decks. Rather than being allin on taking advantage of the plus three plus three buff on turns two to four when it's the most powerful Arabo players need to devise ways to make use of the effect more holistically throughout the game. And this can take a variety of different forms. Arabo's eminence is also uniquely interactable among eminence commanders. A sorcery speed plus 3 plus3 pump doesn't typically do anything until creatures are making contact during combat which leaves ample opportunity to interact with it.

[9:18] I like this design for Arabo, but you may have noticed that I did say uniquely interactable. All other Eminence abilities are easier to get value with, with Sedar Jabari only requiring attacking with knights, Inala only requiring wizards to enter, and the other three being almost entirely impossible to stop the effects of. This uninteractability is another point of critique that you'll most commonly find from the removal lovers of the world. These commanders all have effects that can't even be gotten rid of by dusting them with a sword supply shares. Now, I'll lay my cards on the table here and say that in principle, this feature of Eminence doesn't strictly bother me. There are lots of things that can't be interacted with. Barring hard stacks pieces, drawing a card at start of turn, playing lands, untapping permanence, and so forth.

[10:00] This game is also full of hexroof creatures, uncounterable spells, and abilities that can't even be responded to. Setting aside these more specific examples, it's also important to remember that deleting opposing stuff doesn't need to be the end- all beall of EDH. And I find that this intense focus on spot removal tends to indicate a lack of creativity from players. A couple months ago, I discussed on a second channel video that I actually enjoy not having many tools to deal with very large creatures in one of my decks, as it forces me to think harder with my attacks and utilize the deck's more aggressive tools in some situations. This is a game with many axes on which to attack opposing resources, whether that be board, hand, library, life total, or the stack. And it's good to be willing to move outside your comfort zone sometimes among those different options.

[10:42] Now, does all of this mean the uninteractability of eminence creatures is never a problem? No. And in practice, this feature of eminence can be a real pain point for players, with Edgar Marov being one of the more egregious examples of an eminence ability feeling bad due to its uninteractability. His Eminence ability triggers on cast for a card type with lots of great lowcost options any number of times per turn. If I'm at a low life total and I counter two vampire spells that the Edgar player plays, they still get the two tokens. If they have a source of haste, Edgar's in red, remember these vampires can attack immediately. And these easy to obtain and hard to prevent one ones aren't just creatures to attack and block with. Vampires as a type have a bunch of really powerful cards that take advantage of the raw number of vampires in play, most of which can only be prevented with a counter spell.

[11:27] And that's to say nothing of the blood artists and other aristocrats tools that powerful Eddie decks tend to be crammed with. An eminence ability that grants creature tokens for casting spells was always going to be a little tricky to pull off regardless of creature type. And that ability being for vampires in a deck with black puts it fully over the line into dangerous territory. The tokens are too easy to get and there's too many things that can be done with them. In this extended discussion of how Edgar plays, the point I'm trying to make is that the frustrating play patterns of him and some other eminence commanders are the result of specific design choices, not a problem with the eminence mechanic as a whole. Gavin Verh who worked on the design for Edgar Marov and other eminence cards has said that future Eminence designs should avoid generating permanent onboard material for players.

[12:11] I personally would set a similar but somewhat broader rule. The difficulty and specificity of the setup needs to match the power of the payoff. If triggering an eminence ability is easy, the payoff should be less generic and require more ingenuity to take advantage of, as is the case with Allo and to a lesser extent, Inala. If an eminence ability has a stronger and more generic payoff, it should have a triggering condition that is more specific or more preventable, as is true of Arabo. When in doubt, designers should go more specific with both of these things. Relating back to Gavin's view, giving players something like a creature token or a treasure token is an exceptionally generic payoff, and engineering a condition that's going to be adequately specific to avoid the card feeling frustrating or uninteractable is naturally going to be a big challenge.

[12:55] I also choose a broader rule here because I think the dragon is an example of a frustratingly uninteractable design as well, though to a lesser extent than Edgar. Mana is one of the two primordial resources of Magic the Gathering. And discounting creatures is equivalent to giving players an Eldrazi scion worth of mana to spend every time they'd want to cast one of those creatures. The medallion cycle, which discounts spells of a given color, are some of the most powerful two mana artifacts in the game. and the dragon puts a roughly equivalent discount in the command zone. So a dragon deck can get an entirely impossible to stop accelerant to their game plan and the rest of the table can only do their best to deal with the results of that acceleration. This can pose a problem for players having fun in the here and now.

[13:38] But there's also the problem of what it does to the design space of the game. And this is another thing that comes up in the Commander Chronicles episode. Dragons might cost a lot now, but making a card type all cost one less straight from the command zone with no restrictions means that any lowcost cards of that type in the future that include any colorless symbols are naturally going to have an outsized impact on dragon decks. Watsi has kind of fully committed to being careful with this specifically with dragons since they also recently printed Mox Jasper. But in general, it's a bit reckless to alter future design space in this way with a type as frequently printed as dragons. The design rule I'd set here is simple. Eminence abilities should not directly give cards or mana.

[14:19] Indirectly is fine. All of the eminence abilities are frequently used to generate cards, mana, or both in their respective decks. But there needs to be an extra step involved to increase the specificity and interactivity of this sort of ability. Accumulating these primordial resources is a massive part of most commander decks. And giving a deck these resources totally for free with no extra steps gets you into really dangerous territory for a deck feeling healthy and fitting in. The dragon is considered a classic pub stomper commander because it plays dirtily battle cruiser magic in principle, but its design is streamlined to simply do that better than just about any other deck can. And effortlessly receiving mana is a big part of that. We can also see this echoed in partner commanders.

[15:02] Of the five partner commanders that see the most competitive EDH play, four of them directly give cards or mana, and the fifth is used indirectly with other cards to grant cards and mana. This is especially the case with partners because the mechanic inherently grants card advantage. But this is just an amplification of a general trend. Of these five, the top two are both two-color cards because color is yet another modulating factor that determines the power of a command zone. More colors means more access to powerful interaction and resource engines. And while these are most seen in CEDH, these effects of course bleed into casual as well. If we look at the three most popular commanders of the past year, it's an easy to trigger card draw engine, another easy to trigger card draw engine, and a massive mana granter.

[15:43] This is not to say that these designs are bad or that it's never okay to print cards with mana symbols or the word draw or land on them. It's simply a reflection that Wizards of the Coast should be probably already knows to be a little extra careful when it comes to printing things that give direct resources aimed at commander players. whether eminence is involved or otherwise. So, Eminence, should it really be reprinted? My answer is yes, because I think the design space is interesting. The command zone is the most unique part about the commander format, and its quirks and weird little nooks and crannies of possibility are endlessly fascinating to me. It's for the same reason that I sometimes find myself drawn to the partner mechanic as well, despite disliking it on a conceptual level. And eminence is a far more interesting set of nooks to be explored further.

[16:26] There are some strategies that just aren't as powerful in commander. And it's nice to be able to print a card that gives them a boost without needing to fit the restrictions of a conventional commander. There are also lots of interesting design possibilities that don't work without an element that operates with a commander in the command zone. Ripe design territory for exploration. So, for the rest of this video, I want to think about some eminence designs that make cool usage of the mechanic while avoiding most of the elements that other people find problematic. Earlier in this video, I've gone through three rules I'd follow when designing eminence cards. Stick to two colors or less if there's any risk of competing with existing commanders. Aim for higher specificity if there's any power concerned. And avoid any eminence effect that directly creates card or mana advantage.

[17:08] I'd also add a fourth one here I didn't cover earlier, but which kind of ties in with the first. Eminence commanders should be desirable to actually cast. The two biggest offenders here are the aforementioned Edgar Marov as well as one I haven't talked about as much, Inala. The issue with both of these is that the text on the creature just isn't that great an amplification of the eminence effect. There are an endless list of better things you could do with one vampires for six mana than putting a plus one plus1 counter on them. And tapping wizards to drain opponents is an even worse amplification of Inala's valuec crunching ETB focused eminence ability. So that'll be our final rule. It needs to be desirable to cast the creature. This is the commander format, so you should be casting your commander.

[17:50] Not casting an eminence commander also betrays the purpose of the mechanic a bit to me as well. It gives an opportunity for the command zone to offer multiple tiers of benefit. One before your commander is in play and one after. But this can't happen if you never have a reason to ascend past that first tier of power. So, we have our rules, but what would I do with the eminence mechanic? I mentioned aggro a bit earlier and that's actually the biggest area of opportunity I personally see for Eminence. See, aggro is actually challenging on a structural level with regard to commanders themselves. There are a bunch of fast deck styles that are only propped up by the presence of a somewhat fragile commander, leading to glass cannon decks that are capable of crushing players, but fall apart to two removal spells.

[18:30] The commander allows the deck to attain a high ceiling, but the floor of the deck typically looks pathetic in the landscape of a three opponent 40 health format, leading to a somewhat jarring play pattern. What eminence does then is allow you to split the difference with the eminence effect boosting a deck's early game and overall floor and the commander creature offering a way to compound that advantage in order to keep up a bit later in the game. Arabo is one example, but here's another I came up with with a similar ability format. Instead of a conventional Voltron commander you dump all your resources into, how about an eminence ability that reads, "At the beginning of combat on your turn, you may choose a creature you control. If you do put a plus one plus1 counter on it for each equipment attached to it, then the creature itself could be stor black human soldier with the text," "Whenever you attack, you may have target attacking creature you control deal damage equal to his power to any target.

[19:20] If seven or more damage is dealt this way, draw a card." The eminence effect here can kick in early with keywords like living weapon and formid and it also works well alongside especially low slung equipment bearers like goblin gavalier or morio marauder. This allows the deck to start putting on pressure pretty early into the game and encourages devoting more deck space to lowcost stuff that might traditionally scale poorly in the landscape of EDH. The creature itself serves as a follow-up piece that amplifies this once the deck reaches five mana, effectively amplifying the damage of the presumably equipped and buffed largest attacker and gaining card draw if that source of damage was especially large. You could also construct something spicier, more along the lines of a torren or a sulf.

[20:02] How about an eminence ability that reads, "The first time a source you control deals non-combat damage to a single permanent or player each turn, it deals that much damage plus one instead." or power it up and give it a condition. As long as you have permanence of at least four different types, whenever a source you control would deal non-combat damage, it deals that much damage plus one instead. Ends up a little wordy once you add the eminence clause, but you get the idea. For both this last example and the example of Sto's equipment based eminence ability, I tried to put care into making these abilities feel interactable. Multiple non-land permanence are required to be in play in order for the effect to trigger, unlike four of the six original Eminence commanders whose ability is on a cast trigger, an ETB trigger, or an upkeep trigger.

[20:42] Sure, you still can't remove the source of the effect here, but there are certainly steps required to get benefit from it and steps your opponents can take to deny you that value. These also both fall off big time if you don't cast the commander. One extra conditional damage isn't that great, and a handful of plus one plus1 counters each turn that you have to work for. and which prevent you from using one of the much better equipment commanders out there also isn't that great. Aggro is the biggest area that I like personally as a way to utilize eminence due to the mechanics early game emphasis and stairsteppy nature, but that's far from the only cool use case for it. There's a lot of other interesting design niches to be explored and the 33 Elk showed me a handful of custom cards they'd made to demonstrate those niches.

[21:24] You could have an eminence ability offer a less concrete resource such as goad and then have the commander itself give a way to more tangibly capitalize on goatated creatures. You could have an eminence ability that accumulates resources in some way but with those resources only being accessible by keeping the actual card in play. Sort of like a riff on experience counters that's more stable and a bit less swingy. You could also have an eminence ability that's actually a downside with a strong commander that mitigates that downside, allowing for some truly unique designs and play patterns. Alternatively, you could even have a Bina style politicsy eminence ability that can help any player with the attached commander, allowing a player to break parody and amplify the benefit they get from it.

[22:05] All of these show the potential of the mechanic. It doesn't just have to be a powerful boost to a creature type with an optional attached creature. All sorts of cool and elegant designs are possible here, and attaining them requires above all else mindset and restraint. I believe the dragon and Edgar Marov were each made with the idea to be a super cool, powerful, perfectly rounded commander for players who like the extremely popular tribes of dragons and vampires, respectively. This is how you create the two most popular commanders of all time, and in the process create cards that have each commanded tripledigit price tags for multiple months since the time they were released. I also believe these cards were mistakes, but that's because crowning a powerful color soup champion for two popular and iconic creature types while simultaneously introducing a spicy new command zone modification was always going to be an inherently challenging task.

[22:55] And it's one that just so happened to be a poor pairing for reasons I laid out earlier. A lot of people have called eminence itself a mistake or a bad mechanic. And those people are half correct. Eminence is a mechanic that is challenging to implement well and which carries the full possibility to easily veer off course and into problems. But importantly, that's only because the mechanic poses such a fundamental shakeup to the structure of the command zone. And that feature of it also imbuss it with a ton of rich gameplay possibilities. One of the most restrictive things about the commander format is that decks often feel on or off. Either the commander is in play or it isn't.

[23:35] The eminence mechanic offers the ability to bypass that to add massive layers of dimension to commanders, particularly ones that are more aggressive. That's an incredible tool and it's one I'd love to see used again with care in the future. Thanks for watching and thanks to Architect for supporting the channel. When I'm building decks with Architect, I can easily add cards directly into any of my categories, including one of my baby board categories. If you want to check out my decks, a link is in the description. I'd also like to thank my supporters, some of whom are on screen now. Joining my Patreon or becoming a YouTube member are the easiest ways to support me in making higheffort videos about the commander for and beyond. And I greatly appreciate all the direct support I get.

[24:16] With that said, I'll see you next week where I'll be discussing tax evasion commander style. I'm coming for you a year ago.
